
Page 8

Question 1. What is the meaning of the word "Arab"?
Answer 1. Linguistically, the word "Arab" means deserts and waste barren land well -nigh waterless and treeless.

Question 2. What is the estimated area of the Arabian Peninsula?
Answer 2. The estimated area of the Arabian Peninsula is between a million and a million and a quarter square miles.

Question 3. What are the two most famous tribes of Pure Arabs?
Answer 3. The two most famous tribes of Pure Arabs are Himyar and Kindah.

Question 4. Who were the "Perishing Arabs"?
Answer 4. The Perishing Arabs were the ancient Arabs, of whose history little is known, and of whom were ‘Ad, Tham ?, Tasam, Jadis, Emlaq, and others.

Question 5. What is the geographical position of the Arabian Peninsula?
Answer 5. The Arabian Peninsula is enclosed in the west by the Red Sea and Sinai, in the east by the Arabian Gulf, in the south by the Arabian Sea, and in the north by old Syria and part of Iraq.


Page 9

Question 6. Who were the most famous septs of Kahlan?
Answer 6. The most famous septs of Kahlan were Hamdan, Anmar, Tai’, Mudhhij, Kinda, Lakhm, Judham, Azd, Aws, Khazraj, and the descendants of Jafna.

Question 7. Why did Kahlan septs emigrate from Yemen?
Answer 7. The Kahlan septs emigrated from Yemen due to the failure of trade under the Roman pressure and domain on both sea and land trade routes following Roman occupation of Egypt and Syria.

Question 8. What tribe of Himyar left Yemen and settled in Samawa?
Answer 8. The tribe of Himyar that left Yemen and settled in Samawa was the Quda‘a.

Question 9. What town was Abraham from?
Answer 9. Abraham was from a town called "Ar" near Kufa on the west bank of the Euphrates in Iraq.

Question 10. Where did Abraham make his headquarters for his Message?
Answer 10. Abraham made his headquarters for his Message in Palestine.


Page 10

Question 11. What did the Pharaoh initially try to do to Sarah?
Answer 11. The Pharaoh initially tried to do evil to his wife Sarah.

Question 12. Who forced Abraham to send Hagar and her baby away?
Answer 12. Sarah forced Abraham to send Hagar and her baby away.

Question 13. Where did Abraham send Hagar and her baby?
Answer 13. Abraham sent Hagar and her baby to a plantless valley on a small hill in Hijaz, by the Sacred House.

Question 14. How many journeys did Abraham make to Makkah?
Answer 14. Authentic historical resources spoke of four journeys that Abraham made to Makkah.

Question 15. When did Ishmael become a young man?
Answer 15. Ishmael became a young man after the tribe of Jurhum taught him Arabic.


Page 11

Question 16. Where did Abraham come after Ishmael's marriage?
Answer 16. Abraham came to Makkah after Ishmael's marriage.

Question 17. Who was the daughter of Mudad bin 'Amr married to Ishmael?
Answer 17. Ishmael was married to the daughter of Mudad bin 'Amr, chief of the tribe of Jurhum.

Question 18. What did Abraham tell Ishmael's first wife when he asked her about her husband?
Answer 18. When Abraham asked Ishmael's first wife about her husband, he asked her to tell Ishmael to change his doorstep.

Question 19. How many sons did Ishmael have from the daughter of Mudad?
Answer 19. Ishmael had twelve sons from the daughter of Mudad.

Question 20. Who established a flourishing civilization in the north of Hijaz?
Answer 20. The Nabeteans - sons of Nabet - established a flourishing civilization in the north of Hijaz.


Page 12

Question 21. Where did the tribe of ‘Abdul Qais emigrate too?
Answer 21. The tribe of ‘Abdul Qais emigrated to Bahrain.

Question 22. What were the four tribes from ‘Abd Manaf?
Answer 22. The four tribes from ‘Abd Manaf were ‘Abd Shams, Nawfal, Muttalib, and Hashim.

Question 23. What families emigrated to Hijr?
Answer 23. Banu Hanifa bin Sa‘b bin Ali bin Bakr emigrated to Hijr.

Question 24. Where did most of the tribe of Taghlib live?
Answer 24. Most of the tribe of Taghlib lived in the Euphrates area.

Question 25. What did Prophet Muhammad say All? selected him from?
Answer 25. Prophet Muhammad said All? selected him from the best of the families of Hashim.


Page 13

Question 26. Where did some septs of Kinana live?
Answer 26. Some septs of Kinana lived in Tihama.

Question 27. Where did some septs of Quraish dwell?
Answer 27. Some septs of Quraish dwelt in Makkah and its suburbs.

Question 28. How was Quraish before Qusai bin Kilab?
Answer 28. Quraish was completely disunited before Qusai bin Kilab.

Question 29. What did Qusai bin Kilab do to rally the ranks in Quraish?
Answer 29. Qusai bin Kilab managed to rally their ranks on honourable terms attaching major prominence to their status and importance.

Question 30. What did Qusai bin Kilab do to attach importance to the status of Quraish?
Answer 30. Qusai bin Kilab attached major prominence to the status and importance of Quraish.


Page 14

Question 31. What two types of rulers existed in Arabia before the introduction of Islam?
Answer 31. The two types of rulers in Arabia before the introduction of Islam were crowned kings and heads of tribes and clans.

Question 32. What was the capital of Sheba before 650 BC?
Answer 32. The capital of Sheba before 650 BC was Sarwah, also known as Khriba.

Question 33. What event caused the decline and fall of the kingdom of Sheba?
Answer 33. The decline and fall of the kingdom of Sheba was caused by the Nabatean domain over the north of Hijaz, the Roman superiority over the naval trade routes, and inter-tribal warfare.

Question 34. When did the Abyssinians (Ethiopians) first occupy Yemen?
Answer 34. The Abyssinians (Ethiopians) first occupied Yemen in 340 AD.

Question 35. What event is mentioned in the Noble Qur’an which occurred in Yemen?
Answer 35. The event mentioned in the Noble Qur’an which occurred in Yemen is the Great Flood (450 or 451 AD).


Page 15

Question 36. What event caused the fall of the entire Yemeni civilization?
Answer 36. The great campaign led by Dhu Nawas, a Jew, against the Christians of Najran in 523 which caused them to be thrown alive into a big ditch where a great fire had been set.

Question 37. Who led the campaign against the Christians of Najran?
Answer 37. Dhu Nawas, a Jew, led the campaign against the Christians of Najran.

Question 38. Who led the Abyssinian (Ethiopian) army in 525 A.D.?
Answer 38. Eriat led the Abyssinian (Ethiopian) army in 525 A.D.

Question 39. What was the purpose of the Persian king appointing a Persian ruler over San‘a?
Answer 39. The purpose of the Persian king appointing a Persian ruler over San‘a was to make Yemen a Persian colony.

Question 40. Who was appointed as king to maintain rulership in Heerah?
Answer 40. Juzaima Alwaddah was appointed as king to maintain rulership in Heerah by Ardashir, the leader of the Sasanian state.


Page 16

Question 41. Who was appointed as king by the Persian King Sabour bin Ardashir in 268 A.D.?
Answer 41. 'Amr bin 'Adi bin Nasr Al-Lakhmi was appointed as king by the Persian King Sabour bin Ardashir in 268 A.D.

Question 42. Who was the first of the Lakhmi kings?
Answer 42. 'Amr bin 'Adi bin Nasr Al-Lakhmi was the first of the Lakhmi kings.

Question 43. Who called for dissoluteness in social life?
Answer 43. Mazdak called for dissoluteness in social life.

Question 44. Who declared war against the Shaiban tribe?
Answer 44. Kisra Anu Shairwan declared war against the Shaiban tribe.

Question 45. When did the battle of Yarmuk take place?
Answer 45. The battle of Yarmuk took place in the year 13 A.H.


Page 17

Question 46. Who embraced Islam during the reign of the Chief of Believers, ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab?
Answer 46. King Jabala bin Al-Aihum embraced Islam during the reign of the Chief of Believers, ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab.

Question 47. Who took over rulership after Ishmael's death?
Answer 47. Two of Ishmael's sons, Nabet and Qidar, took over rulership after Ishmael's death.

Question 48. Who took over rulership of Makkah before the rise of Bukhtanassar?
Answer 48. Mudad bin ‘Amr Al-Jurhumi took over rulership of Makkah before the rise of Bukhtanassar.

Question 49. What privileges did the Mudar tribes enjoy?
Answer 49. The Mudar tribes enjoyed three privileges: leading pilgrims from ‘Arafat to Muzdalifah and then from Mina to the ‘Aqabah Stoning Pillar; they were allowed to throw stones at Al -‘Aqabah only after one of the ‘Sofa’ gave them permission; and they were given authority to appoint a ruler over Makkah.

Question 50. For how long did Ishmael's epoch last?
Answer 50. Ishmael's epoch lasted for twenty centuries B.C.


Page 18

Question 51. What family took over after Sofa perished?
Answer 51. The family of Sa‘d bin Zaid Manat from Tamim tribe took over.

Question 52. Who was responsible for Al-Ifadah?
Answer 52. The family of Adwan was responsible for Al-Ifadah.

Question 53. Who was responsible for deferment of the sacred months?
Answer 53. The family of Tamim bin ‘Adi from Bani Kinana was responsible for deferment of the sacred months.

Question 54. How long did Khuza‘a’s reign in Makkah last?
Answer 54. Khuza‘a’s reign in Makkah lasted for three hundred years.

Question 55. What was the cause of the war between Qusai and Khuza‘a?
Answer 55. The cause of the war between Qusai and Khuza‘a is unclear, with three versions being that Qusai felt more entitled to shoulder responsibility of rulership over Makkah, Khuza‘a claiming Halil requested Qusai to hold custodianship of Al-Ka‘bah, and Halil giving the custodianship of the Sacred House to his daughter and appointing Qusai as her agent.


Page 19

Question 56. Who was the first to have absolute rulership over Makkah and custodianship of the Sacred House?
Answer 56. Qusai was the first to have absolute rulership over Makkah and custodianship of the Sacred House.

Question 57. What was Qusai’s significant achievement credited to him?
Answer 57. Qusai’s significant achievement credited to him was the establishment of An -Nadwa House (an assembly house) on the northern side of Al -Ka‘bah Mosque.

Question 58. Who was singled out for honour and prestige by Qusai?
Answer 58. Qusai singled out 'Abd Manaf, a son of his, for honour and prestige.

Question 59. What responsibilities were entrusted to 'Abd Manaf?
Answer 59. Responsibilities such as chairing of An -Nadwa House, the standard, the doorkeeping of Al -Ka‘bah, providing water and food for pilgrims were entrusted to 'Abd Manaf.

Question 60. Who assumed the position of providing food and water for pilgrims after Hashim bin 'Abd Munaf died?
Answer 60. After Hashim bin 'Abd Munaf died, the charge of food and water giving was taken over by Al -Muttalib bin 'Abd Manaf, and afterwards by 'Abd Al -Muttalib bin Hashim, the Prophet's grandfather, whose sons assumed this position until the rise of Islam.


Page 20

Question 61. What were some of the posts distributed among the people of Quraish?
Answer 61. The posts distributed among the people of Quraish included casting the lots for the idols, noting of offers and sacrifices, settlement of disputes and relevant issues, consultation, organization of blood-money and fines, bearing the national banner, the military institute, footmen, and cavalry, and functioning as foreign mediators.

Question 62. What were the tribes living near Heerah subjected to?
Answer 62. The tribes living near Heerah were subjected to the Arabian king of Heerah, with a formal rather than actual dependency.

Question 63. What form of government did the tribes in the hinder deserts have?
Answer 63. The tribes in the hinder deserts had heads chosen by the whole tribe, creating a demi-government based on tribal solidarity and collective interests in defence of land and property.

Question 64. What privileges did the heads of tribes have?
Answer 64. The heads of tribes had dictatorial privileges similar to those of kings, and were rendered full obedience and subordination in both war and peace. They also had special claims to the spoils of war.

Question 65. How did the political situation of three Arab regions adjacent to foreigners affect their people?
Answer 65. The political situation of the three Arab regions adjacent to foreigners resulted in encroachment on the rights of subordinates, ignorance, oppression, iniquity, injustice, and hardship, and turning them into people groping in darkness and ignorance.


Page 21

Question 66. Who did the Arabs living inside Arabia have to rely on when they faced hardships?
Answer 66. The Arabs living inside Arabia did not have anyone to rely on during hardships. They had neither a king to sustain their independence nor a supporter to seek advice from.

Question 67. Who was widely respected by the Arabs?
Answer 67. The rulers of Hijaz were widely respected by the Arabs.

Question 68. What was the role of the rulers of Hijaz?
Answer 68. The role of the rulers of Hijaz was a mixture of secular and official precedence as well as religious leadership. They ruled among the Arabs in the name of religious leadership and always monopolized the custodianship of the Holy Sanctuary and its neighbourhood.

Question 69. What did the rulers of Hijaz look after?
Answer 69. The rulers of Hijaz looked after the interests of Al-Ka‘bah visitors and were in charge of putting Abraham’s code into effect. They even had such offices and departments like those of the parliaments of today.

Question 70. What came to light during the Abyssinian (Ethiopian) invasion?
Answer 70. The weakness of the rulers of Hijaz during the Abyssinian (Ethiopian) invasion came to light during the invasion.


Page 22

Question 71. What religion did the Arabs profess before Islam?
Answer 71. The Arabs professed the religion of Abraham before Islam.

Question 72. Who was 'Amr bin Luhai?
Answer 72. 'Amr bin Luhai was a chief of Khuza'a renowned for righteousness, charity, reverence and care for religion.

Question 73. What did 'Amr bin Luhai bring to Makkah from Syria?
Answer 73. 'Amr bin Luhai brought an idol (Hubal) to Makkah from Syria.

Question 74. What kind of sacrifices did the Arabs offer their idols?
Answer 74. The Arabs offered various kinds of sacrifices and immolations to their idols.

Question 75. How many idols were found around Al-Ka'bah when the Prophet conquered Makkah?
Answer 75. 360 idols were found around Al-Ka'bah when the Prophet conquered Makkah.


Page 23

Question 76. What type of food was not allowed to eat on which All ?’s Name has not been pronounced?
Answer 76. Meat on which All ?’s Name has not been pronounced at the time of the slaughtering of the animal is not allowed to eat.

Question 77. What did the Qur’ ?ic verses address regarding the assigning of certain portions of food, drink, cattle, and crops to idols?
Answer 77. The Qur’ ?ic verses addressed that portions were also consecrated to All ? Himself, but people often found reasons to transfer parts of All ?’s portion to idols, but never did the opposite.

Question 78. What does currying favours with idols involve?
Answer 78. Currying favours with idols involves making votive offerings of crops and cattle to them.

Question 79. What are Bahira, Sa’iba, Wasila and Hami?
Answer 79. Bahira, Sa’iba, Wasila and Hami are certain animals that were dedicated to idols, and were thus spared from useful work for the sake of these heathen gods.

Question 80. What does the Qur’ ?ic verses say about the animals dedicated to idols?
Answer 80. The Qur’ ?ic verses say that All? has not instituted things like Bahira, Sa’iba, Wasila or Hami, as these animals were liberated in honour of idols as practised by pagan Arabs in the pre-Islamic period.


Page 24

Question 81. What superstitions did the Arabs believe?
Answer 81. The Arabs believed that certain idols and heathen gods would bring them closer to All ? and mediate with Him for their sake. They also believed in divinatory traditions such as casting of Azlam and lent credence to soothsayers, diviners, and astrologers. Additionally, they believed in signs as betokening future events, particular days and months, and animals as ominous, and that the soul of a murdered person would fly in the wilderness until revenge was taken.


Page 25

Question 82. What did pre-Islamic people observe despite some innovations?
Answer 82. Pre-Islamic people observed devotion to the Holy Sanctuary, circumambulation, obser vance of pilgrimage, the vigil on ‘Arafah and offering sacrifices, despite some innovations that adulterated these holy rituals.

Question 83. What did the Quraish do when observing the pilgrim rituals?
Answer 83. The Quraish, out of arrogance, feeling of superiority to other tribes and pride in th eir custodianship of the Sacred House, would refrain from going to ‘Arafah with the crowd, instead they would stop short at Muzdalifah.

Question 84. What type of behaviour was dictated by their social traditions?
Answer 84. Their social traditions dictated that they would not eat dried yoghurt or cooked fat, nor would they enter a tent made of camel hair or seek shade unless in a house of adobe bricks, so long as they were committed to the intention of pilgrimage.

Question 85. What did the Noble Qur’ rebuked?
Answer 85. The Noble Qur’ rebuked the Quraish for not going to ‘Arafah with the crowd and instead stopping at Muzdalifah.

Question 86. How were pilgrims from outside Makkah expected to circumambulate Al-Ka‘bah?
Answer 86. Pilgrims coming from outside Makkah were expected to circumambulate Al -Ka‘bah in Quraish uniform clothes, but if they could not afford them, men were to do so in a state of nudity, and women with only some piece of cloth to hide their groins.


Page 26

Question 87. When did the Jews first migrate from Palestine to Arabia?
Answer 87. The first migration of Jews from Palestine to Arabia occurred in the year B.C. 587.


Page 27

Question 88. What was the religious life of the Arabs before the advent of Islam?
Answer 88. The religious life of the Arabs before the advent of Islam was largely marginal and close to nothing.

Question 89. How did the polytheists practice Abrahamism?
Answer 89. The polytheists faked Abrahamism and were detached from its precepts and oblivious of its good manners.

Question 90. How did Judaism become in Arabia?
Answer 90. Judaism became abominable hypocrisy and rabbis became lords to the exclusion of the Lord, engaging in the practice of dictatorial subjection and acquisition of wealth and power.

Question 91. What effect did Christianity have on the Arabs?
Answer 91. Christianity had no bearing on the Arabs as it was alien to their style of life and had no relationship with their practical life.

Question 92. How were people of other religions similar to the polytheists?
Answer 92. People of other religions were similar to the polytheists in their inclinations, dogmas, customs, and traditions.


Page 28

Answer 92. Pre-Islamic Arabian society highly valued the status of the woman and would often shed blood in defence of her honour.

Question 93. How were marital contracts made in pre-Islamic Arabia?
Answer 93. Marital contracts in pre-Islamic Arabia rested entirely in the hands of the woman's legal guardian.

Question 94. How did the pre-Islamic Arabs practice polygyny?
Answer 94. Pre-Islamic Arabs practiced polygyny by marrying two sisters at the same time, or even the wives of their fathers if they were divorced or widowed.

Question 95. How did divorce work in pre-Islamic Arabian society?
Answer 95. Divorce was largely in the power of the husband in pre-Islamic Arabian society.

Question 96. How did the pre-Islamic Arabs treat female slaves?
Answer 96. Female slaves in pre-Islamic Arabian society had far fewer rights than free women and often faced much worse conditions.


Page 29

Question 97. What was the most common means of providing needs of life in pre-Islamic Arabia?
Answer 97. Trade was the most common means of providing their needs of life in pre-Islamic Arabia.

Question 98. What were the attributes of pre-Islamic Arabs?
Answer 98. The attributes of the pre-Islamic Arabs included hospitality, keeping a covenant and a sense of honour and rejection of injustice.

Question 99. What industries were practiced in pre-Islamic Arabia?
Answer 99. Knitting and tannage were practiced in pre-Islamic Arabia, and there was also some sort of farming and stock-breeding.

Question 100. Where did the people who practiced these industries come from?
Answer 100. People who practiced these industries in pre-Islamic Arabia came from Yemen, Heerah and the borders of Syria.

Question 101. What were the prevailing features in Arabia economically?
Answer 101. Poverty, hunger and insufficient clothing were the prevailing features in Arabia economically.


Page 31

Question 102. What are some of the priceless ethics in the pre-Islamic Arab life?
Answer 102. Self-esteem, strong determination, forbearance, perseverance, mildness, truthfulness, honesty, and detachment from intrigue and treachery.


Page 32

Question 103. Who was Muhammad's lineage traced to?
Answer 103. Muhammad's genealogy has been traced to ‘Adnan.


Page 33

Question 104. Who was 'Abdul-Muttalib’s uncle?
Answer 104. Al-Muttalib bin ‘Abd Munaf was 'Abdul-Muttalib’s uncle.

Question 105. What was 'Abdul-Muttalib renowned for?
Answer 105. 'Abdul-Muttalib was renowned for his honourable behaviour which gained him Makkah’s deep love and high esteem.

Question 106. What happened when 'Abdul-Muttalib asked Quraish for help?
Answer 106. Quraish abstained from extending any sort of support to either 'Abdul-Muttalib or Nawfal when 'Abdul-Muttalib asked for help.

Question 107. How did Bani An-Najjar show support for 'Abdul-Muttalib?
Answer 107. Bani An-Najjar showed support for 'Abdul-Muttalib when his uncle, Abu Sa‘d bin ‘Adi, marched to Makkah at the head of eighty horsemen and camped in Abtah in Makkah.

Question 108. What two important events did 'Abdul-Muttalib witness in his lifetime?
Answer 108. 'Abdul-Muttalib witnessed two important events in his lifetime, namely digging Zamzam well and the Elephant raid.


Page 34

Question 109. Who were the Quraishites making a claim for partnership in the well of Zamzam?
Answer 109. The Quraishites were making a claim for partnership in the well of Zamzam.

Question 110. What did All ? show the Quraishites on their way to consult Bani Sa‘d’s diviner?
Answer 110. All ? showed them His Signs that confirmed ‘Abdul -Muttalib’s prerogative as regards the sacred spring.

Question 111. Who led a great army to demolish Al-Ka‘bah?
Answer 111. Abraha As -Sabah Al -Habashi, the Abyssinian (Ethiopian) viceroy in Yemen, led a great army to demolish Al-Ka‘bah.

Question 112. How did All ? protect Al-Ka‘bah from demolition?
Answer 112. All ? protected Al-Ka‘bah from demolition by loosing upon them birds in flights, hurling against them stones of baked clay and made them like green blades devoured.

Question 113. In what month did the Event of the Elephant take place?
Answer 113. The Event of the Elephant took place in the month of Al -Muharram, fifty or fifty five days before the birth of Prophet Muhammad.


Page 35

Question 114. What was the purpose of the Elephant Raid Event?
Answer 114. The Elephant Raid Event was intended to show the sacredness of All 's House and to provide a justification for the Divine Wisdom behind backing polytheists against Christians.

Question 115. How many children did 'Abdul-Muttalib have?
Answer 115. 'Abdul-Muttalib had ten sons and six daughters.

Question 116. Who was 'Abdullah?
Answer 116. 'Abdullah was the father of Prophet Muhammad and the smartest of 'Abdul-Muttalib's sons.

Question 117. How was 'Abdullah chosen to be sacrificed to Al-Ka'bah?
Answer 117. 'Abdullah was chosen to be sacrificed to Al-Ka'bah by writing his name on divination arrows, shuffling and drawing them.

Question 118. How did Islam approve of 'Abdullah's sacrifice?
Answer 118. Islam approved of 'Abdullah's sacrifice by increasing the amount of blood-money usually accepted in Arabia from ten camels to a hundred.


Page 36

Question 119. How old was An-Nabigha Al-Ju’di when he died?
Answer 119. An-Nabigha Al-Ju’di was twenty-five years old when he died.

Question 120. When was Amina informed of her husband’s death?
Answer 120. Amina was informed of her husband’s death when he died.

Question 121. What was the wealth that Abdullah left behind?
Answer 121. Abdullah left five camels, a small number of goats, and a she-servant called Barakah-Umm Aiman behind.

Question 122. Is there an agreement among historians on the date of An-Nabigha Al-Ju’di’s death?
Answer 122. No, there is not an agreement among historians on the date of An-Nabigha Al-Ju’di’s death. Some historians state that his death was two months before the birth of Muhammad, while others say it was two months after.

Question 123. What did Amina do to celebrate the memory of her husband?
Answer 123. Amina celebrated her husband’s memory in a heart-touching elegy.


Page 37

Question 124. In what year was Muhammad born?
Answer 124. Muhammad was born in 571 A.D.


Page 38

Question 125. Who suckled Prophet Muhammad as a baby?
Answer 125. Thuyeba and Haleemah As-Sa’diyah suckled Prophet Muhammad as a baby.

Question 126. How did Haleemah and her household experience good fortune while caring for Muhammad?
Answer 126. Haleemah and her household experienced good fortune while caring for Muhammad after they prayed for rain and immediate relief. When they reached Makkah, their donkey recovered speed and the barren land sprouted forth luxuriant grass.

Question 127. What did Haleemah do when no woman accepted the Prophet offered to them?
Answer 127. When no woman accepted the Prophet offered to them, Haleemah decided to take him as she did not want to go back without any baby.

Question 128. How long did Muhammad stay with Haleemah?
Answer 128. Muhammad stayed with Haleemah for two years until he was weaned.

Question 129. What did Gabriel do when he came down and ripped Muhammad's chest open?
Answer 129. When Gabriel came down and ripped Muhammad's chest open, he extracted a blood-clot out of it and said: "That was the part of Satan in thee". He then washed it with the water of Zamzam in a golden basin and replaced it in its position.


Page 39

Question 130. Who joined and restored Muhammad's heart together?
Answer 130. His nurse joined and restored Muhammad's heart together.

Question 131. Who took charge of Muhammad after the death of his grandfather?
Answer 131. Muhammad's uncle, Abu Talib, took charge of him after his grandfather's death.

Question 132. Where did Amina take Muhammad for a month-long journey?
Answer 132. Amina took Muhammad for a month-long journey to Yathrib, also known as Madinah.

Question 133. What did Abdul-Muttalib believe about Muhammad?
Answer 133. Abdul-Muttalib believed that Muhammad would hold a significant position and showered him with affection.

Question 134. How did Abu Talib treat Muhammad?
Answer 134. Abu Talib treated Muhammad with great respect and extended him all possible protection and support.


Page 40

Question 135. Who was the monk that recognized Muhammad when he and his uncle arrived in Syria?
Answer 135. The monk was called Bahira, but his real name was Georges.


Page 41

Question 136. Who was the salesman in the story?
Answer 136. The salesman in the story was a man from Zubaid clan.

Question 137. Where did the salesman go to sell his commodities?
Answer 137. The salesman went to Makkah to sell his commodities.

Question 138. How old was Muhammad when he went to Syria as a merchant for Khadijah?
Answer 138. Muhammad was 25 years old when he went to Syria as a merchant for Khadijah.

Question 139. Who did Khadijah send to Syria to do her business?
Answer 139. Khadijah sent her hireling, Maisarah, to Syria to do her business.

Question 140. How many children did Khadijah bear for Muhammad?
Answer 140. Khadijah bore six children for Muhammad: Al-Qasim, Zainab, Ruqaiyah, Umm Kulthum, Fatimah, and ‘Abdulla who was called Taiyib and Tahir.


Page 42

Question 141. What event almost demolished Al-Ka’bah?
Answer 141. Five years before Prophethood, there was a great flood in Makkah that swept towards Al-Ka’bah and almost demolished it.

Question 142. Who started rebuilding Al-Ka’bah?
Answer 142. Al-Waleed bin Al-Mugheerah Al-Mukhzumi started the work.

Question 143. How was the dispute on the placement of the Black Stone resolved?
Answer 143. The oldest among the chiefs Abu Omaiyah bin Mugheerah Al-Makhzumi proposed that the first person to enter the Sanctuary should decide on the point, and the Messenger of Allah was the first to enter the Mosque.

Question 144. What is the structure around Al-Ka’bah called?
Answer 144. The structure around Al-Ka’bah is called Ash-Shadherwan.

Question 145. How tall was Al-Ka’bah when it was finished?
Answer 145. When the building of Al-Ka’bah had finished, it assumed a square form fifteen metres high.


Page 43

Question 146. What did Muhammad refrain from doing?
Answer 146. Muhammad refrained from superstitious practices, drinking wine, eating meat slaughtered on stone altars, attending idolatrous festivals, and swearing by Al-Lat and Al-‘Uzza.

Question 147. How did All? intervene when Muhammad tried to follow some of his people's traditions?
Answer 147. All? intervened to curb any lapse in Muhammad's course and checked him from doing so.

Question 148. What title did Muhammad's fellow-citizens give him?
Answer 148. Muhammad's fellow-citizens gave him the title of Al-‘Ameen (trustworthy).

Question 149. What did Khadijah say about Muhammad?
Answer 149. Khadijah said that Muhammad united uterine relations, helped the poor and the needy, entertained the guests and endured hardships in the path of truthfulness.

Question 150. What happened when Muhammad and 'Abbas were rebuilding Al-Ka'bah?
Answer 150. While rebuilding Al-Ka'bah, 'Abbas suggested that Muhammad wrap his loincloth around his neck to protect himself from the stones. As he did that, Muhammad fell to the ground and his eyes turned skyward. Later on, he woke up and his loins were never seen afterwards.


Page 44

Question 151. How often did Prophet Muhammad go to Hira’ cave?
Answer 151. Prophet Muhammad went to Hira’ cave frequently, especially in Ramadan, for worship and meditation.

Question 152. What did Prophet Muhammad provide for himself and wayfarers when he went to Hira’?
Answer 152. Prophet Muhammad provided himself and wayfarers with Sawiq (barley porridge) and water when he went to Hira’.

Question 153. How long did the period of privacy and detachment from the impurities of life last for Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 153. The period of privacy and detachment from the impurities of life lasted for three years for Prophet Muhammad.

Question 154. What did Gabriel do when Prophet Muhammad attempted to throw himself from the top of high mountains?
Answer 154. Gabriel would appear before him and say: "O Muhammad! You are indeed All?’s Messenger in truth," which would calm and comfort him.

Question 155. What did Gabriel do when All ?’s revelation paused for a few days?
Answer 155. When All ?’s revelation paused for a few days, Gabriel would appear before him and say to him what he had said before, which was to relieve the Messenger of All ?  of the fear he experienced and to make him long for the Revelation.


Page 45

Question 156. What did the messenger of All ? hear while he was walking?
Answer 156. The messenger of All ? heard a voice from the sky.

Question 157. What did Ibn Al-Qayyim mention about the stages of the Revelation?
Answer 157. Ibn Al-Qayyim mentioned the stages of the Revelation as the period of true vision, what the angel invisibly cast in the Prophet's mind and heart, the angel speaking directly to the Prophet, and the angel coming like the toll of a bell.

Question 158. How did the Messenger of All ? respond when he heard the voice from the sky?
Answer 158. The Messenger of All ? was very afraid and knelt on the ground before going home saying, "Cover me ... Cover me ... ".

Question 159. How did the angel appear when he visited the Messenger of All ??
Answer 159. The angel appeared in different forms, including in the form of a human being, or like the toll of a bell, or invisibly casting in the Prophet's mind and heart.

Question 160. How did Zaid feel when the Messenger of All ? had a revelation while on his thigh?
Answer 160. Zaid felt the pressure and felt like his thigh was almost injured.


Page 46

Question 161. Who revealed to the Prophet?
Answer 161. The angel revealed to the Prophet what All? had ordered him to reveal. The Prophet also received All?’s behest of Sal? (prayer) when he ascended to heaven. All? also spoke to him directly, without an angel mediating, without a curtain in between.

Question 162. What is the ultimate objective of warning mentioned in the text?
Answer 162. The ultimate objective of warning mentioned in the text is to make sure that no one breaching the pleasures of All? in the whole universe is ignorant of the serious consequences that his behaviour entails, and to create a sort of unprecedented shock within his mind and heart.

Question 163. What does ‘magnifying the Lord’ dictate?
Answer 163. ‘Magnifying the Lord’ dictates explicitly that the only pride allowed to nourish on the earth is exclusively All?’s to the exclusion of all the others’.

Question 164. What does ‘cleansing the garments and shunning all aspects of abomination’ point to?
Answer 164. ‘Cleansing the garments and shunning all aspects of abomination’ point directly to the indispensable need to render both the exterior and interior exceptionally chaste and pure, in addition to the prerequisite of sanctifying the soul and establishing it highly immune against the different sorts of impurities and the various kinds of pollutants.

Question 165. What were the first Revelation sent to the Prophet?
Answer 165. The first Revelation sent to the Prophet implied several injunctions, which were: "O you (Muhammad ) enveloped (in garments)! Arise and warn! And your Lord (All ?) magnify! And your garments purify! And keep away from Ar-Rujz (the idols). And give not a thing in order to have more (or consider not your deeds of All ?’s obedience as a favour to All ?). And be patient for the sake of your Lord (i.e. perform your duty to All?)!"


Page 47

Question 166. What does the text imply about how the Prophet should approach his work?
Answer 166. The text implies that the Prophet should approach his work with dedication, self-forgetfulness and an awareness of God, without pride in his deeds or sacrifices.


Page 48

Question 167. Who is the text about?
Answer 167. The text is about the Prophet Muhammad.

Question 168. What did the text ask the Prophet to do?
Answer 168. The text asked the Prophet to arise and warn.

Question 169. What was the Prophet expected to do?
Answer 169. The Prophet was expected to shoulder a heavy burden and strive relentlessly for over twenty years to spread a new faith and enlighten mankind.

Question 170. What did the text suggest about living to oneself?
Answer 170. The text suggested that living to oneself is quite easy.

Question 171. What did the text say about the Prophet's efforts?
Answer 171. The text said that the Prophet managed quite successfully to rise to his feet and measure up to the new task, striving and never abating in carrying the burden of the great Trust.


Page 49

Question 172. What are the two phases of the Muhammadan Call?
Answer 172. The two phases of the Muhammadan Call are the Makkan phase and the Madinese phase.

Question 173. How long did the Makkan phase last?
Answer 173. The Makkan phase lasted nearly thirteen years.

Question 174. What are the three stages of the Makkan phase?
Answer 174. The three stages of the Makkan phase are the stage of the secret Call, the stage of the proclamation of the Call in Makkah, and the stage of the call to Islam and propagating it beyond Makkah.

Question 175. Who was the first to enter the fold of Islam?
Answer 175. Khadijah, the Prophet’s spouse, was the first to enter the fold of Islam.

Question 176. Who was Abu Bakr As-Siddiq?
Answer 176. Abu Bakr As-Siddiq was the Prophet’s close friend who professed Islam on the very first day of the call. He was a loyal friend and an energetic and most courageous follower of the Prophet.


Page 50

Question 177. When did people start to convert to Islam?
Answer 177. People started to convert to Islam after the first verses of " O you wrapped in garments" were revealed.

Question 178. Who were the forerunners of the new faith in Arabia?
Answer 178. The forerunners of the new faith in Arabia were 'Uthman bin 'Affan Al-Umawi, Az-Zubair bin 'Aw wam Al-Asadi, 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Awf, Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas, Az-Zuhri and Talhah bin 'Ubaidullah At-Tamimy.

Question 179. Who was the most trustworthy of the Muslim Nation?
Answer 179. The most trustworthy of the Muslim Nation was Abu 'Ubaidah bin Al-Jarrah from Bani Harith bin Fahr.

Question 180. What did the early verses focus on?
Answer 180. The early verses focused on sanctifying the soul and deterring the Muslims from falling prey to the deceptive glamour of life.

Question 181. When was the prayer established as an obligatory ritual?
Answer 181. The prayer was established as an obligatory ritual at an early stage of the Islamic Call, with two rak'ah (unit of prayer) in the morning and the same in the evening.


Page 51

Question 182. Who asked what Muhammad and Ali were up to?
Answer 182. Abu Talib asked what Muhammad and Ali were up to.

Question 183. How did the Quraishites first view Muhammad's teachings?
Answer 183. The Quraishites initially viewed Muhammad's teachings as those of a religious philosopher, similar to Omaiyah bin Abi As-Salt, Quss bin Sa‘idah, and ‘Amr bin Nufail.

Question 184. What did the angel Gabriel bring Muhammad down?
Answer 184. The angel Gabriel brought Muhammad down a further Revelation of All?’s Will.

Question 185. What had Muhammad been doing for three years prior to the time of the angel Gabriel's Revelation?
Answer 185. For three years prior to the time of the angel Gabriel's Revelation, Muhammad had been content to teach within a rather narrow circle.

Question 186. What was the common objective among the believers that emerged during this period?
Answer 186. The common objective among the believers that emerged during this period was to propagate and deeply establish the call unto Islam.


Page 52

Question 187. What chapter of the Quran initially revealed the verse regarding preaching?
Answer 187. S?ah Ash-Shu‘ar? (Chapter 26 – The Poets).

Question 188. What was the first command in the verse for Muhammad?
Answer 188. To warn his tribe (O Muhammad) of near kindred.

Question 189. What cultural milieu did the Message of this Chapter communicate?
Answer 189. The Message communicated was that the Truth is insurmountable and that when the spirit of Prophecy came to Makkah, it was resisted by the votaries of evil.

Question 190. How many people attended the meeting which Muhammad rallied his kinsmen of Bani Hashim?
Answer 190. Forty-five people attended the meeting.

Question 191. What did Muhammad swear by when explaining to the people what was at stake?
Answer 191. Muhammad swore by Allah that he had been sent as a Messenger, that people will die just as they sleep and be resurrected just as they wake up, and that they will be called to account for their deeds.


Page 53

Question 192. Who did Abu Talib pledge to protect?
Answer 192. Abu Talib pledged to protect the Messenger of All?.

Question 193. What did the Messenger of All? call out on Mount As-Safa?
Answer 193. On Mount As-Safa, the Messenger of All? called out "O Sabahah!"

Question 194. Who reported a part of the story according to Al-Bukhari?
Answer 194. Al-Bukhari reported a part of the story according to Ibn ‘Abbas.

Question 195. What did the Messenger of All? ask the people of Quraish?
Answer 195. The Messenger of All? asked the people of Quraish to testify to the Oneness of All? and believe in his Messengership and the Day of Resurrection.

Question 196. What did the Messenger of All? tell Fatimah?
Answer 196. The Messenger of All? told Fatimah to rescue herself from the Fire, for he had no power to protect her from All?.


Page 54

Question 197. Who was the Prophet that was trying to spread the teachings of Allah?
Answer 197. The Prophet was Muhammad.

Question 198. What did the Makkans do when they heard what the Prophet said?
Answer 198. The Makkans burst into outrage and disapproval, and attempted to settle the affair and quell the revolution.

Question 199. How did the Makkans try to persuade the Prophet to stop his activities?
Answer 199. The Makkans tried to persuade the Prophet to stop by addressing his uncle Abu Talib and asking him to intervene.

Question 200. What did the Makkans fear would happen if the Prophet was successful?
Answer 200. The Makkans feared that their arrogated religiously-based supremacy and highhandedness would no longer be in effect, and that they would have to submit to the pleasure of Allah and His Messenger.

Question 201. What were the Makkans aware of when they heard Muhammad's words?
Answer 201. The Makkans were aware that denying godship to anyone save Allah and that belief in the Divine Message and the Hereafter are interpreted in terms of complete compliance and absolute commitment.


Page 55

Question 202. What did Quraish attempt to do to stop Muhammad's Call?
Answer 202. Quraish agreed to contemplate a device that was bound to alienate the Arab pilgrims from the new faith preached by Muhammad. They proposed to describe him as a soothsayer, possessed by jinn, a poet, or a practitioner of witchcraft.


Page 56

Question 203. What tactics did the wicked people use against the new converts?
Answer 203. The wicked people used tactics such as scoffing, degrading, ridiculing, belying and laughter-instigating cheap manners, with the aim of dragging the spirit of despair into the new converts' morale and slackening their ardent zealotry.

Question 204. How did they refer to the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 204. The wicked people referred to the Prophet Muhammad as a man possessed by a jinn, or an insane person, or a liar practising witchcraft.

Question 205. What did the highbrow Quraish aristocrats ask the Prophet with jest and scorn?
Answer 205. The highbrow Quraish aristocrats asked the Prophet "has Allah favoured from amongst us?".

Question 206. What were some of the ways the wicked laughed at the righteous?
Answer 206. The wicked laughed at the righteous by inwardly laughing at their faith, insulting and winking at them in public places, running them down in their own houses and reproaching them whenever and wherever they saw them.

Question 207. What did Allah say about the wicked's tricks and falsehoods?
Answer 207. Allah said that the wicked's tricks and falsehoods will be shown for what they are in the Hereafter and the tables will be reversed.


Page 57

Question 208. How did those who committed crimes react to those who believed?
Answer 208. Those who committed crimes used to laugh at those who believed, wink at each other in mockery, and return jesting when they returned to their own people.


Page 58

Question 209. What did the polytheists offer Muhammad?
Answer 209. The polytheists offered that Muhammad worship their gods for a year, and they worship his Lord for a year. They also said, "If you accept our gods, we would worship yours."


Page 59

Question 210. Who was the chairman of the committee of 25 Quraish notables?
Answer 210. Abu Lahab, the Prophet’s uncle, was the chairman of the committee.

Question 211. What kind of measure were the polytheists determined to take to stop the tidal wave of Islam?
Answer 211. The polytheists were determined to take measures to malign the Messenger of Allāh and put the new converts to different sorts of torture.

Question 212. Who was the Prophet's wife during the period of persecutions?
Answer 212. The Prophet's wife during the period of persecutions was Umm Jameel bint Harb.

Question 213. What did Umm Jameel do to cause the Prophet bodily injury?
Answer 213. Umm Jameel tied bundles of thorns with ropes of twisted palm-leaf fibre and strewed them about in the paths which the Prophet was expected to take in order to cause him bodily injury.

Question 214. What happened to Umm Jameel when she attempted to hurl a handful of pebbles at the Prophet?
Answer 214. Allāh, the Great, took away Umm Jameel's sight and she saw only Abu Bakr who was sitting immediately next to the Prophet.


Page 60

Question 215. Who was Abu Lahab?
Answer 215. Abu Lahab was the Prophet's uncle.

Question 216. What did Abu Jahl do to the Prophet while he was praying in Al-Ka'bah?
Answer 216. Abu Jahl asked his companions to bring the dirty foetus of a she-camel and place it on the Prophet's back.

Question 217. What did Fatimah, the Prophet's daughter do when she saw the situation?
Answer 217. Fatimah removed the filth from her father's back.

Question 218. What did Abu Jahl do to try and stop the Prophet from praying?
Answer 218. Abu Jahl proceeded threateningly and uttered abusive language to try and stop the Prophet from praying.

Question 219. Who was Al-Akhnas bin Shuraique Ath-Thaqafi?
Answer 219. Al-Akhnas bin Shuraique Ath-Thaqafi was someone who used to detract from the character of the Prophet in season and out of season.


Page 61

Question 220. What did the Prophet do when Abu Jahl defiantly claimed he was the mightiest in Makkah?
Answer 220. The Prophet chided him severely.


Page 62

Question 221. Who was Yasir, the father?
Answer 221. Yasir was the father of 'Ammar, who was tortured severely by the polytheists.

Question 222. Who was Abu Jahl?
Answer 222. Abu Jahl was a polytheist who bayoneted 'Ammar's mother, Sumaiyah, to death.

Question 223. Who purchased and freed some of the she-slaves?
Answer 223. The wealthy believer, Abu Bakr, purchased and freed some of the she-slaves.

Question 224. What measures did the Prophet take to avoid open confrontation with the polytheists?
Answer 224. The Prophet took the decision to meet with the Muslims secretly, in order to avoid open confrontation with the polytheists and protect the vulnerable new Call of Islam.

Question 225. Who recorded the first instance of bloodshed in the history of Islam?
Answer 225. Sa‘d bin Abi Waqqas recorded the first instance of bloodshed in the history of Islam, when he beat a polytheist and shed his blood.


Page 63

Question 226. Who took Dar Al-Arqam as a temporary centre?
Answer 226. The Prophet took Dar Al-Arqam, in As-Safa mountain, in the fifth year of his mission, as a temporary centre to meet his followers secretly and instruct them in the Qur’? and in the Islamic wisdom.

Question 227. Who were the first to migrate to Abyssinia (Ethiopia)?
Answer 227. The Prophet permitted some of his followers to seek asylum in Abyssinia (Ethiopia) as the persecutions worsened in the fifth year of Prohethood.

Question 228. What was revealed in the fifth year of Prohethood?
Answer 228. S?ah Al-Kahf (Chapter 18 — The Cave) was revealed in the fifth year of Prohethood, comprising three stories that included parables for the true believers to assimilate.

Question 229. What story is included in S?ah Al-Kahf (Chapter 18 — The Cave)?
Answer 229. S?ah Al-Kahf (Chapter 18 — The Cave) comprises the story of the Companions of the Cave, Al-Khidr (The Teacher of Arabia) and Moses, and Dhul-Qarnain (The Two-Horned One).

Question 230. What was revealed after S?ah Al-Kahf (Chapter 18 — The Cave)?
Answer 230. S?ah Az-Zumar (Chapter 39 — The Crowds) was revealed after S?ah Al-Kahf (Chapter 18 — The Cave). It provides guidance for the believers to evacuate the hot spots of disbelief and aggression and speaks of Allāh’s promise to give His righteous servants the earth and whatever is in it.


Page 64

Question 231. Where did 'Uthman bin 'Affan and his wife Ruqaiyah migrate to?
Answer 231. They migrated to Abyssinia (Ethiopia).

Question 232. What did the Prophet say about 'Uthman bin 'Affan and Ruqaiyah?
Answer 232. The Prophet said they were the first people to migrate in the cause of Allah after Abraham and Lot.

Question 233. What happened in the Holy Sanctuary during Ramadan of the same year?
Answer 233. The Prophet began reciting S?ah An-Najm (Chapter 41 — The Star) and the awe-inspiring Words of Allah descended unawares upon them and they immediately got stunned by them.

Question 234. What happened when the Prophet reached the stormy heart-beating ending of the recital?
Answer 234. The idolaters unconsciously and with full compliance, prostrated themselves in absolute god-fearing and stainless devotion.

Question 235. What happened after the idolaters prostrated themselves?
Answer 235. Their co-polytheists who had not been present on the scene reproached and blamed them severely, and they began to fabricate lies and calumniate the Prophet alleging that he had attached to their idols great veneration and ascribed to them the power of desirable intercession.


Page 65

Question 236. Who was the leader of the Muslim emigrants?
Answer 236. The leader of the Muslim emigrants was the Messenger of Allah.


Page 66

Question 237. Who was the King of Abyssinia?
Answer 237. The King of Abyssinia was the Negus.

Question 238. What did Ja'far recite to the King?
Answer 238. Ja'far recited the opening verses of S?ah Maryam (Chapter 19 - Mary).

Question 239. What did the Negus say when Ja'far was finished?
Answer 239. The Negus exclaimed, "It seems as if these words and those which were revealed to Jesus are the rays of the light which have radiated from the same source."

Question 240. What was the demand of Quraish?
Answer 240. The demand of Quraish was that the refugees be returned, and that Muhammad and his followers blasphemed Jesus Christ.

Question 241. What did Abu Talib say to the Prophet?
Answer 241. Abu Talib said to the Prophet, "Go and preach what you please, for by All ? I will never forsake you."


Page 67

Question 242. Who did the Quraish offer to Abu Talib in exchange for the Prophet Muhammed?
Answer 242. Quraish offered a youth called ‘Amarah bin Al-Waleed bin Al-Mugheerah to Abu Talib in exchange for the Prophet Muhammed.

Question 243. What did Abu Talib say in response to Quraish's offer?
Answer 243. Abu Talib said it was an "unfair bargain" and he refused their offer.

Question 244. What did 'Utaibah bin Abi Lahab tell the Prophet Muhammed?
Answer 244. 'Utaibah bin Abi Lahab told the Prophet Muhammed that he did not believe in any of the Qur’ ?.

Question 245. What did the Prophet Muhammed supplicate against 'Utaibah?
Answer 245. The Prophet Muhammed supplicated that All? should set one of His dogs on 'Utaibah.

Question 246. What happened to 'Utaibah as a result of the Prophet Muhammed's supplication?
Answer 246. 'Utaibah was attacked by a lion while he was in Syria, which he believed to be the result of the Prophet Muhammed's supplication.


Page 68

Question 247. Who was the idolater who once trod on the Prophet's neck?
Answer 247. 'Uqbah bin 'Abi Mu'ait.

Question 248. Who was the archenemy of Islam?
Answer 248. Abu Jahl.

Question 249. What did the Prophet swear by in the context of the incident?
Answer 249. He swore by All? in Whose Hand is my soul.

Question 250. Who intervened when Abu Jahl tried to drop a rock on the Prophet?
Answer 250. Gabriel.

Question 251. Who converted to Islam in Dhul Hijjah, the sixth year of Prophethood?
Answer 251. Hamzah bin 'Abdul-Muttalib.


Page 69

Question 252. Who attacked Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 252. Abu Jahl attacked Prophet Muhammad.


Page 70

Question 253. Who did 'Umar intend to kill?
Answer 253. 'Umar intended to kill the Prophet Muhammad.

Question 254. What were 'Umar's pre-Islamic tendencies?
Answer 254. 'Umar's pre-Islamic tendencies were dark layers of traditional bigotry and blind pride in his forefathers.

Question 255. What happened when 'Umar reached his sister's house?
Answer 255. When 'Umar reached his sister's house, he heard Khabbab bin Aratt reading the Qur'anic Chapter T?H?/i> to his sister and her husband.

Question 256. What did Fatimah ask 'Umar to do before touching the page?
Answer 256. Fatimah asked 'Umar to wash himself first before touching the page as he was unclean on account of his idolatry.

Question 257. What did 'Umar read when he touched the page?
Answer 257. When 'Umar touched the page, he read the opening verses of the Chapter T?H?/i>.


Page 71

Question 258. What did the Prophet Muhammad say to strengthen Islam?
Answer 258. The Prophet Muhammad said, “O All?! Strengthen Islam through either ‘Umar bin Al -Khattab or Abu Jahl bin Hisham.”

Question 259. What did the polytheists of Quraish do when they heard of ‘Umar's conversion to Islam?
Answer 259. When the polytheists of Quraish heard of ‘Umar's conversion to Islam, they marched towards his house with the intention of killing him.

Question 260. What did All ? say in the text?
Answer 260. All ? said in the text, "Verily! I am  All?! L?il?a illa Ana (none has the right to be worshipped but I), so worship Me and offer prayers perfectly (Iq ?at-as-Sal?), for My Remembrance."

Question 261. Who is Al-‘As bin Wa’il As-Sahmy Abu ‘Amr?
Answer 261. Al-‘As bin Wa’il As-Sahmy Abu ‘Amr is from the tribe of Bani Sahm who were allies to the Muslims during the pre-Islamic period of ignorance.

Question 262. What did Mujahid say the impact of ‘Umar's conversion to Islam was?
Answer 262. Mujahid said that the impact of ‘Umar's conversion to Islam was that the Messenger of Allah said, “Islam became strong when ‘Umar accepted it.”


Page 72

Question 263. Why had Umar bin Al-Khattab been given the epithet of Al- Farouque (he who distinguishes truth from falsehood)?
Answer 263. After Umar had embraced Islam, he asked the Prophet if they were on the right path here and in the Hereafter. The Prophet answered affirmatively and Umar swore that they would leave their concealment and proclaim their noble cause publicly. On this occasion, the Prophet attached to him the epithet of Al-Farouque.

Question 264. What was the response of Quraish when the Muslims went to the Mosque in broad daylight?
Answer 264. When the polytheists of Quraish saw the Muslims, their faces went pale and they became incredibly depressed and resentful.

Question 265. What did Quraish do after the conversion of Hamzah bin 'Abdul-Muttalib and Umar bin Al-Khattab?
Answer 265. Quraish realized that it was no use meting out torture to the Muslims and began to direct their campaign to a different course. They offered the Prophet wealth, power, and kingship if he promised to keep silent and no longer proclaim his new faith.

Question 266. Who negotiated with the Messenger of Allah?
Answer 266. 'Utbah bin Rabi'a, a leader of Quraish, negotiated with the Messenger of Allah.

Question 267. What did the Messenger of Allah say after hearing all of Quraish's offer?
Answer 267. After hearing all of Quraish's offer, the Messenger of Allah said: "Have you said all?" and after hearing that all had been said, he spoke forth and said: "I swear by the One Who has sent me with the Truth that I shall not entertain your offer and will never accept it".


Page 73

Question 268. What is the book mentioned in the text?
Answer 268. The book mentioned in the text is the Qur'an.


Page 74

Question 269. Who did Abu Talib deeply believe would not be of any help to the Prophet?
Answer 269. Abu Talib believed that neither ‘Umar nor Hamzah would be of any help to the Prophet.

Question 270. What did Abu Talib assemble in order to protect the Prophet?
Answer 270. Abu Talib assembled his kinsfolk of Bani Hashim and Bani Al-Muttalib, sons of ‘Abd Munaf, to protect and immunize the Prophet from the polytheists.

Question 271. Who sided with the idolaters when Abu Talib called for protection for the Prophet?
Answer 271. Abu Talib's brother, Abu Lahab, sided with the idolaters.

Question 272. What was the plan that the polytheists had for the Prophet?
Answer 272. The polytheists had laid a carefully-studied plan to kill the Prophet.

Question 273. What made the wise man understand that there was a serious plot to disregard his status as a custodian of the Prophet?
Answer 273. The wise man understood that all of the plans smacked of a serious plot to disregard his status as a custodian of the Prophet.


Page 75

Question 274. What was the agreement between Banu Muttalib and Banu Hashim?
Answer 274. The agreement between Banu Muttalib and Banu Hashim was to immunize Muhammad and shield him against any treacherous attempt to kill him.

Question 275. What measures did the pagans of Makkah take against the supporters of Muhammad?
Answer 275. The pagans of Makkah decided not to have any business dealings with Muhammad and his supporters, nor any sort of inter-marriage or social relations, and even to cut off verbal contacts with him and his followers.

Question 276. Where did Abu Talib and his followers go to escape the pact of injustice and aggression?
Answer 276. Abu Talib and his followers withdrew to a valley on the eastern outskirts of Makkah.

Question 277. What were the people in confinement forced to eat during the siege?
Answer 277. The people in confinement were forced to eat leaves of trees and skins of animals during the siege.

Question 278. How did Muhammad persist in his calling to Islam despite all odds?
Answer 278. Muhammad persisted in his calling to Islam despite all odds by continuing to go to Al-Ka'bah and praying publicly and by trying to reach to his people, dissuading them from idolatry and calling them to Allâh, the one God who has no associates.


Page 76

Question 279. Who was responsible for breaking the siege against Bani Hashim?
Answer 279. Hisham bin ‘Amr, Zuhair bin Abi Omaiya, Al-Mut‘im bin ‘Adi, Abu Al-Bukhtari and Zam‘a bin Al-Aswad were responsible for breaking the siege against Bani Hashim.

Question 280. What did they find when they examined the parchment?
Answer 280. When they examined the parchment, they found that it was eaten away by ants and that nothing was left save the part bearing (in the Name of Allâh).

Question 281. What did Abu Talib propose to the Makkan people?
Answer 281. Abu Talib proposed that the Makkan people should give Muhammad up to them if his words proved untrue, otherwise, they would have to recant and repeal their boycott.

Question 282. What did the Makkan people ultimately agree to?
Answer 282. The Makkan people ultimately agreed to Abu Talib's proposition and to the soundness of Muhammad's words.

Question 283. What did the polytheists have the opportunity to experience?
Answer 283. The polytheists had the opportunity to experience a striking sign of Muhammad’s Prophethood which was the white ants eating away the parchment.


Page 77

Question 284. Who was the Prophet Muhammad's main support?
Answer 284. His main support was his uncle, Abu Talib.

Question 285. How many people were in the delegation sent by the Quraish?
Answer 285. The delegation sent by the Quraish was comprised of 25 people.

Question 286. What did the Prophet Muhammad invite the Quraish to do?
Answer 286. The Prophet Muhammad invited the Quraish to testify that there is no god worthy to be worshipped but Allah and to divested themselves of any sort of worship they harboured for any deities other than Allah.

Question 287. How did the Quraish react to the Prophet Muhammad's invitation?
Answer 287. The Quraish reacted with surprise and ridicule and said it was something incredible.

Question 288. What did the Prophet Muhammad promise the Quraish if they accepted his invitation?
Answer 288. The Prophet Muhammad promised the Quraish that they would gain sovereignty over the Arabs and non-Arabs.


Page 78

Question 289. What did Allâh reveal regarding this incident?
Answer 289. Allâh revealed the following verses: "Sâd: By the Qur’ân full of reminding. Nay, those who disbelieve are in false pride and Apposition. How many a generation We have destroyed before them, and they cried out when there was no longer time for escape! And they (Arab pagans) wonder that a warner (Prophet Muhammad) has come to them from among themselves! And the disbelievers say, ‘This (Prophet Muhammad) is a sorcerer, a liar. Has he made the gods (all) into One God (Allâh). Verily, this is a curious thing!’ And the leaders among them went about (saying): ‘Go on, and remain constant to your gods! Verily, this is a thing designed (against you)! We have not heard (the like) of this among the people of these later days. This is nothing but an invention.’

Question 290. What did the leaders among the disbelievers say regarding the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 290. The leaders among the disbelievers said, ‘This (Prophet Muhammad) is a sorcerer, a liar. Has he made the gods (all) into One God (Allâh). Verily, this is a curious thing!’

Question 291. What did the people of the later days think of the incident?
Answer 291. They thought it was an invention and they had not heard of anything like this before.

Question 292. What did the Prophet Muhammad tell his people regarding the dispute?
Answer 292. He told them to hold fast to the religion of their forefathers and that Allâh would in due course adjudicate and settle the dispute between them and their enemy.

Question 293. How does Allâh describe those who disbelieve?
Answer 293. Allâh describes those who disbelieve as being in false pride and apposition.


Page 79

Question 294. When did Abu Talib die?
Answer 294. Abu Talib passed away in Rajab, the tenth year of the Prophethood.

Question 295. What did the Prophet ask of Abu Talib on his deathbed?
Answer 295. On his deathbed, the Prophet requested his uncle to make a profession that there is no true god but Allâh.

Question 296. What did Abu Jahl and ‘Abdullah bin Abi Omaiyah say to Abu Talib when the Prophet asked him to profess his faith?
Answer 296. Abu Jahl and ‘Abdullah bin Abi Omaiyah told Abu Talib to stick to the religion of ‘Abdul -Muttalib.

Question 297. What did the Prophet say when Abu Talib refused to profess his faith?
Answer 297. The Prophet said that he would persistently beg pardon for him till he was forbidden to do so.

Question 298. According to Al-'Abbas bin 'Abdul-Muttalib, what did the Prophet say about Abu Talib's fate?
Answer 298. Al-'Abbas bin 'Abdul-Muttalib reported that the Prophet said that Abu Talib was in a shallow fire, and if not for him, he would have been at the bottom of the (Hell) Fire.


Page 80

Question 299. What year did the death of Khadijah occur?
Answer 299. The death of Khadijah occurred in the tenth year of Prophethood, which would be around 610 AD.


Page 81

Question 300. When did the Prophet marry Sawdah?
Answer 300. The Prophet married Sawdah in Shawwal, the tenth year of Prophethood.

Question 301. What was the name of the Prophet's first wife after the death of Khadijah?
Answer 301. The name of the Prophet's first wife after the death of Khadijah was Sawdah.

Question 302. What happened to Sawdah’s husband?
Answer 302. Sawdah’s husband, As-Sakran bin ‘Amr, died on their way back to Makkah, leaving her in a terrible state of destitution.

Question 303. What had Sawdah done for the sake of Islam?
Answer 303. Sawdah had suffered many hardships for the sake of Islam. She was an early convert to the Islamic Faith and it was by her persuasion that her husband had embraced Islam.

Question 304. What did Sawdah do with her turn with the Prophet?
Answer 304. Sawdah later granted her turn with the Prophet to her co-wife, ‘Aishah.


Page 82

Question 305. Where did the Prophet go to invite people to Islam?
Answer 305. The Prophet went to At-Ta'if, about 60 kilometres from Makkah.


Page 83

Question 306. Where did 'Addas come from?
Answer 306. 'Addas came from Nineveh.

Question 307. What was 'Addas's faith?
Answer 307. 'Addas was a Christian.

Question 308. How did 'Addas react when he found out Muhammad was a Prophet?
Answer 308. 'Addas paid homage to Muhammad and kissed his hands.

Question 309. Where did Muhammad go after his encounter with 'Addas?
Answer 309. After his encounter with 'Addas, Muhammad set out on the way back to Makkah and eventually reached Qarn Al-Manazil.

Question 310. What did Muhammad experience at Qarn Al-Manazil?
Answer 310. At Qarn Al-Manazil, Muhammad experienced Allâh sending him Gabriel together with the angel of mountains and a company of jinns who listened to him reciting the Noble Qur’ân.


Page 84

Question 311. Who offered protection to the Prophet?
Answer 311. Al-Mut‘im bin ‘Adi offered protection to the Prophet.


Page 85

Question 312. Where did the Prophet return to in July 619?
Answer 312. The Prophet returned to Makkah in July 619.

Question 313. Of the Arabian tribes which Islam was introduced to, which was the first?
Answer 313. The first Arabian tribe which Islam was introduced to was Banu 'Amir bin Sa'sa'ah.

Question 314. What was the response of the Bani Haneefah when the Prophet addressed them?
Answer 314. The response of Bani Haneefah was very repugnant.

Question 315. What did the elderly man say when he heard the story of the Prophet?
Answer 315. The elderly man said that the Prophet was really Ishmaelite and he was the Truth.

Question 316. What was the Prophet's mission?
Answer 316. The Prophet's mission was to strive for the fulfillment of his mission of introducing Islam to people.


Page 86

Question 317. Who was Swaid bin Samit?
Answer 317. Swaid bin Samit was an intelligent and discreet poet from Yathrib (Madinah) who encountered the Prophet and accepted Islam when he heard some verses from the Qur'an.

Question 318. How did Eyas bin Mu'adh encounter the Prophet?
Answer 318. Eyas bin Mu'adh encountered the Prophet when he was part of a delegation seeking an alliance with Quraish against another rival tribe dwelling in Madinah.

Question 319. How did Abu Dhar Al-Ghifari identify the Prophet?
Answer 319. Abu Dhar Al-Ghifari identified the Prophet by sending his brother to Makkah for more details and then going himself to probe the situation.

Question 320. How did the Makkans try to influence Tufail bin 'Amr Ad-Dausi?
Answer 320. The Makkans tried to influence Tufail bin 'Amr Ad-Dausi by filling his ears with antipathy against the Prophet and warning him against speaking or even listening to him.

Question 321. How did Tufail bin 'Amr Ad-Dausi respond to the Prophet's invitation?
Answer 321. Tufail bin 'Amr Ad-Dausi was overwhelmed by the Prophet's words and burst into tears, immediately embracing Islam and being henceforth called Tufail bin 'Amr Ad-Dausi Al-Muslimi.


Page 87

Question 322. Who were the six men the Prophet and his Companions encountered in Yathrib?
Answer 322. The six men they encountered in Yathrib were As‘ad bin Zurarah, ‘Awf bin Harith, Rafi‘ bin Malik, Qutbah bin ‘Amir, ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir, and Jabir bin ‘Abdullah.

Question 323. What did the Madinese often hear the Jews say?
Answer 323. The Madinese often heard the Jews say that a Prophet was about to rise and that they would follow the Prophet, then smite their enemies.

Question 324. What did Dhumad experience upon hearing the Prophet's words?
Answer 324. Dhumad experienced something exceptionally beautiful and discerned the truth latent within.

Question 325. What did Dhumad ask the Prophet for as a supportive sign?
Answer 325. Dhumad asked the Prophet for a supportive sign from Allâh, which was a Divinely bestowed light in his whip.

Question 326. What year was it during the pilgrimage season when the Islamic Call found the righteous seeds?
Answer 326. It was during the eleventh year of Prophethood that the Islamic Call found the righteous seeds.


Page 88

Question 327. Who asked the tribe of Khazraj about their allegiance?
Answer 327. The Prophet.

Question 328. What did the Prophet present to the tribe of Khazraj?
Answer 328. The Prophet presented to them an expose of Islam and explained its implications and responsibilities.

Question 329. What did the tribe of Khazraj say to the Prophet when he concluded his talk?
Answer 329. The tribe of Khazraj said to the Prophet, "We have left our community for no tribe is so divided by hatred and rancour as they are. Allâh may cement our ties through you. So let us go and invite them to this religion of yours; and if Allâh unites them in it, no man will be dearer than you."

Question 330. When did the Prophet marry 'Aishah?
Answer 330. The Prophet concluded a marriage contract with ‘Aishah in Shawwal of the same year and consummated his marriage with her in Shawwal, the year 1 A.H. in Madinah when she was nine.

Question 331. What were the results of the Madinese converting to Islam?
Answer 331. The Madinese converting to Islam resulted in them succeeding in winning adherents for Islam from amongst their fellow citizens and hardly was there a house in Madinah not talking curiously and enthusiastically about the Messenger of Allâh.


Page 89

Question 332. On what date did the Prophet's Night Journey take place?
Answer 332. The exact date is still controversial, but the majority of jurists believe it took place between 16-12 months prior to the Prophet's migration to Madinah.

Question 333. How was the Prophet carried to the Distant Mosque in Jerusalem?
Answer 333. The Prophet was carried in body from the Sacred Mosque in Makkah to the Distant Mosque in Jerusalem on a horse called Al-Buraq in the company of Gabriel, the archangel.

Question 334. Who did the Prophet meet in the first heaven?
Answer 334. In the first heaven the Prophet met Adam, the progenitor of mankind.

Question 335. What did the Lord reveal unto His servant at the Divine Presence?
Answer 335. At the Divine Presence the Lord revealed to His servant that which He revealed and ordained fifty daily prayers for him.

Question 336. How many times each day were the followers of the Prophet originally enjoined to pray?
Answer 336. Originally the followers of the Prophet were enjoined to pray fifty times a day, but this was eventually reduced to five times each day.


Page 90

Question 337. What did Moses suggest to the Prophet?
Answer 337. Moses suggested that the Prophet ask for a remission in the number of prayers.

Question 338. How many prayers were finally reduced to?
Answer 338. The number of prayers was reduced to five.

Question 339. What did Ibn 'Abbas say about the Prophet seeing Allah?
Answer 339. Ibn 'Abbas said that the word "Ru'ya" signifies the observation with the help of the eye.

Question 340. What did the Prophet choose from the two vessels brought to him?
Answer 340. The Prophet chose the vessel containing milk from the two vessels brought to him.

Question 341. What did the two manifest rivers symbolically describe?
Answer 341. The two manifest rivers symbolically describe the area in whose fertile valleys Muhammad's message will settle.


Page 91

Question 342. What is the most concise justification of the Night Journey?
Answer 342. The most concise justification of the Night Journey is expressed in Allâh’s Words: "... in order that We might show him (Muhammad) of Our Ayât (proofs, evidences, signs, etc.)"


Page 92

Question 343. What were the consequences of the Jews transgressing the definite order given to them?
Answer 343. The word of torment was justified against them, and they were destroyed with complete destruction.

Question 344. What is the inner secret of the blessed Journey?
Answer 344. The inner secret of the blessed Journey was to provide the Prophet with a secure shelter to settle in and headquarters safe enough to empower and embolden him to communicate his Message to all the world at large.

Question 345. What did the verses foreshadow for the Muslims?
Answer 345. The verses foreshadowed for the Muslims their ownership of a piece of land, exercising full freedom over it and establishing a coherent society around whose axis the whole humanity would rotate.

Question 346. What was the first scene of the Night Journey?
Answer 346. The first scene of the Night Journey was Jerusalem.

Question 347. When did the Night Journey take place?
Answer 347. The Night Journey took place either before the First Pledge of ‘Aqabah or between the two; after all, Allâh knows best.


Page 93

Question 348. Who comprised the group of twelve disciples that pledged allegiance to Muhammad as their Prophet?
Answer 348. The group of twelve disciples comprised of five of the six who had met the Prophet the year before, the sixth who stayed away was Jabir bin ‘Abdullah bin Reyab, and the other seven were: Mu‘adh bin Al -Harith, Ibn ‘Afra, from Khazraj., Dhakwan bin ‘Abd Al -Qais, from Khazraj., ‘Ubadah bin As -Samit, from Khazraj., Yazeed bin Tha‘labah, from Khazraj., ‘Al-‘Abbas bin ‘Ubadah bin Nadalah, from Khazraj., Abul Haitham bin At -Taihan, from Aws., and ‘Uwaim bin Sa‘idah, from Aws.

Question 349. Who was the first Muslim ‘ambassador’ sent to Yathrib (Madinah) to teach and propagate the doctrines of Islam?
Answer 349. The first Muslim ‘ambassador’ sent to Yathrib (Madinah) to teach and propagate the doctrines of Islam was Mus‘ab bin ‘Umair Al -‘Abdari.

Question 350. What were some of the promises made in the Pledge taken by the twelve disciples?
Answer 350. The twelve disciples promised not to worship anyone but one Allah, not to steal, nor commit adultery, nor kill their children, not to utter slander or intentionally forge falsehood, and not to disobey Muhammad in any just matter.

Question 351. Who was Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh and Usaid bin Hudair?
Answer 351. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh and Usaid bin Hudair were chiefs of the two tribes Bani ‘Abd Al -Ashhal and Bani Zafar.

Question 352. What was the reaction of Usaid bin Hudair upon hearing some verses of the Noble Qur’ân?
Answer 352. Usaid bin Hudair was pleased and satisfied after hearing some verses of the Noble Qur’ân.


Page 94

Question 353. What did Usaid need to do in order to embrace Islam?
Answer 353. He was asked to observe washing, purge his garment, bear witness to the Truth and then perform two Rak‘a.

Question 354. Who was the only person not to embrace Islam when Usaid left?
Answer 354. Al -Usairim was the only person who hung back until the Day of Uhud.

Question 355. How did Mus‘ab bin ‘Umair spread Islam to the people of Madinah?
Answer 355. Mus‘ab stayed in Madinah carrying out his mission diligently and successfully until all the houses of Al-Ansar had Muslim elements, men and women.

Question 356. What did the Prophet say about Al -Usairim after he embraced Islam?
Answer 356. The Prophet commented saying: "He has done a little but his reward is great."

Question 357. How did Mus‘ab bin ‘Umair inform the Prophet of the success of his mission in Madinah?
Answer 357. Shortly before the approach of the next pilgrimage season, Mus‘ab bin ‘Umair returned to Makkah carrying to the Prophet glad tidings about the new fertile soil of Islam in Madinah, and its environment rich in the prospects of good, and the power and immunity that that city was bound to provide to the cause of Islam.


Page 95

Question 358. Who was Ka'b Bin Malik Al-Ansari?
Answer 358. Ka‘b bin Malik Al-Ansari was one of the leaders of the Ansâr (Helpers).

Question 359. Where did the Muslim converts meet the Prophet?
Answer 359. They met the Prophet secretly at night in mid Tashreeq Days (the 11th, 12th and 13th days of Dhul Hijja) in a hillock at Al -‘Aqabah.

Question 360. What was the question the Muslim converts were asking?
Answer 360. The question they were asking was "Isn’t it high time we protect Muhammad instead of leaving him forsaken, deserted and stumbling in the hillocks of Makkah?".

Question 361. Who joined the Muslim converts at the meeting?
Answer 361. 'Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin  Haram joined the Muslim converts at the meeting and accepted Islam.

Question 362. What did Ka'b say in response to Al-'Abbas speech?
Answer 362. Ka'b replied, "We have heard your words, and now O Messenger of Allâh, it is for you to speak and take from us any pledge that you want regarding your Lord and yourself."


Page 96

Question 363. What were the conditions given by the Prophet for the pledge?
Answer 363. The conditions given by the Prophet for the pledge were to listen and obey in all sets of circumstances, to spend in plenty as well as in scarcity, to enjoin good and forbid evil, to fear the censure of none in Allâh’s service and to defend the Prophet and debar themselves, their spouses, and their children from whatever they debar the Prophet from.

Question 364. Who asked the Prophet about the principles over which the pledge would be taken?
Answer 364. The Ansâr (Helpers) asked the Prophet about the principles over which the pledge would be taken.

Question 365. What did Al-Abbas bin Ubada bin Nadlah advise the people of Khazraj?
Answer 365. Al-Abbas bin Ubada bin Nadlah advised the people of Khazraj to carefully consider the responsibility they were undertaking and to be prepared to make any necessary sacrifices.

Question 366. How did the Prophet reassure the Ansâr?
Answer 366. The Prophet reassured the Ansâr that he would not desert them and that he would remain with them in both life and death, fighting whoever they fought and making peace with whomever they made peace with.

Question 367. What did the Prophet recite before giving the conditions of the pledge?
Answer 367. The Prophet recited some Qur’ânic verses before giving the conditions of the pledge.


Page 97

Question 368. What did the Prophet reply when the people asked for a reward for following the agreement?
Answer 368. The Prophet replied: "Paradise is in store for you."

Question 369. How many delegates from Al-Khazraj and Al-Aws were appointed to preach Islam and implement the articles of the pledge?
Answer 369. Nine from Al-Khazraj and three from Al-Aws were appointed to preach Islam and implement the articles of the pledge.

Question 370. How did the Quraishites respond when they heard news of the treaty with the Madinese?
Answer 370. The Quraishites responded by sending a large delegation of their leaders and arch-criminals to protest severely against the treaty.

Question 371. How did the Prophet and the Madinese respond when Al-Abbas offered to fight the Quraishites?
Answer 371. The Prophet and the Madinese responded by declining the offer, stating that they had not been commanded to follow that course.

Question 372. How did the Prophet acknowledge the two women in the group?
Answer 372. The Prophet acknowledged the two women in the group by taking their pledge orally, since he had never shaken hands with a strange lady.


Page 98

Question 373. What was the name of the second pledge taken by the Madinese?
Answer 373. The Second 'Aqabah Pledge, later known as the Great 'Aqabah Pledge.

Question 374. What was the Madinese response to the Quraishite allegations?
Answer 374. The Madinese polytheists swore by Allâh and answered in good faith that there was no truth in the report.

Question 375. How did the Quraishites try to stop the Madinese pilgrims?
Answer 375. In a fit of rage, they pursued the pilgrims but did not succeed in catching hold of anyone except Sa‘d bin ‘Ubadah.

Question 376. What was the main reason for the success of the Second 'Aqabah Pledge?
Answer 376. The main reason for the success of the Second 'Aqabah Pledge was the deeply-established belief in Allâh, His Messenger and His Book.

Question 377. Who helped rescue Sa’d bin ‘Ubadah?
Answer 377. Sa’d bin ‘Ubadah was rescued by Al-Mut‘im bin ‘Adi and Harith bin Harb bin Omaiya.


Page 99

Question 378. Who was the first to migrate to Madina?
Answer 378. Abu Salamah was the first to migrate to Madinah, a year before the Great ‘Aqabah Pledge.

Question 379. What happened to Suhaib when he expressed a wish to migrate?
Answer 379. The polytheists began to insult him and tried to detain him, eventually only allowing him to go if he gave away all his wealth.

Question 380. What happened to Hisham bin Al -'Asi when he attempted to migrate?
Answer 380. Hisham was detained by the Makkans and prevented from leaving.

Question 381. How was 'Ayyash bin Abi Rabi'a persuaded to stay in Makkah?
Answer 381. Abu Jahl and his brother Al -Harith attempted to touch the most sensitive area in man, i.e. his relation with his mother, claiming that his mother had forbidden him to leave.

Question 382. What obstacles did the Muslims have to face when migrating to Madina?
Answer 382. The Muslims had to face various obstacles when migrating to Madina, including the hindering and debarring of the polytheists, personal risks of being robbed or killed, the material waste and sacrifice of wealth, and the foggy future with its various unpredictable sorts of sorrows and crises.


Page 100

Question 383. Who accompanied 'Ayyash on his journey to Makkah?
Answer 383. 'Umar accompanied 'Ayyash on his journey to Makkah.

Question 384. What did 'Umar advise 'Ayyash to do?
Answer 384. 'Umar advised 'Ayyash to stick to the back of his docile camel in case of any suspicious activity.

Question 385. Who urged the Prophet to depart from Makkah?
Answer 385. Abu Bakr urged the Prophet to depart from Makkah.

Question 386. How did Abu Bakr prepare for the Prophet's journey?
Answer 386. Abu Bakr purchased two swift camels and fed them properly for four months to prepare for the Prophet's journey.

Question 387. What happened to most of the Muslims who had migrated to Abyssinia (Ethiopia)?
Answer 387. Most of the Muslims who had migrated to Abyssinia (Ethiopia) came back to Madinah to join the rest of the Muslims there.


Page 101

Question 388. What was the purpose of the meeting convened by the Quraish?
Answer 388. The purpose of the meeting was to take effective measures with a view to stopping the tide of Muhammad's followers towards their new abode in Madinah.

Question 389. Who attended the meeting?
Answer 389. Delegates representing all the Quraishite tribes attended the meeting, the most significant of whom were: Abu Jahl bin Hisham, Jubair bin Mut‘im, Tuaima bin ‘Adi, Al -Harith bin ‘Amir, Rabi‘a’s two sons Shaibah and ‘Utbah, Abu Sufyan bin Harb, An-Nadr bin Al -Harith, Abul Bukhtary bin Hisham, Zama‘a bin Al -Aswad, Hakeem bin Hizam, Al-Hajjaj’s two sons Nabih and Munbih, and Omaiyah bin Khalaf.

Question 390. Who interrupted their talk on the way to An -Nadwah House?
Answer 390. Satan, in the guise of a venerable elderly man, interrupted their talk on the way to An -Nadwah House.

Question 391. What proposals were put forward during the meeting?
Answer 391. Proposals of expulsion from Makkah and imprisonment for life were put forward during the meeting, but both were eventually turned down. Abu Jahl bin Hisham then suggested that they should stone Muhammad to death.

Question 392. When was the meeting held?
Answer 392. The meeting was held on Thursday, 26th Safar, the year fourteen of Prophethood / 12th September 622 A.D.


Page 102

Question 393. Who suggested the plan to assassinate Muhammad?
Answer 393. Abu Jahl suggested the plan to assassinate Muhammad.

Question 394. How did Abu Jahl plan to assassinate Muhammad?
Answer 394. Abu Jahl planned for a band of young men from each tribe to strike Muhammad simultaneously with their swords.

Question 395. What was the purpose of Abu Jahl's suggestion?
Answer 395. The purpose of Abu Jahl's suggestion was to spread the blood-money over the group so no vengeance could be exacted.

Question 396. What was the reaction to Abu Jahl's proposal?
Answer 396. The proposal was unanimously accepted by the representatives.

Question 397. What did the representatives do after the proposal was accepted?
Answer 397. The representatives broke up the meeting and went back home with full determination for immediate implementation.


Page 103

Question 398. Who were the eleven men chosen by the chiefs of Makkah to make preparations for their plan?
Answer 398. The eleven men chosen by the chiefs of Makkah were Abu Jahl, Hakam bin Abil Al -‘As, ‘Uqbah bin Abi Mu‘ait, An -Nadr bin Harith, Omaiyah bin Khalaf, Zama‘a bin Al -Aswad, Tu‘aima bin ‘Adi, Abu Lahab, Ubai bin Khalaf, Nabih bin Al -Hajjaj and his brother Munbih bin Al -Hajjaj.

Question 399. Who did the Prophet arrange with to migrate together?
Answer 399. The Prophet arranged to migrate with his Companion Abu Bakr.

Question 400. How did the Prophet manage to work his way through the assassins?
Answer 400. The Prophet managed to work his way through the assassins by reciting verses of the Noble Qur’ân and casting a handful of dust at them.

Question 401. What did the Prophet assure 'Ali of when he was left in the Prophet's bed?
Answer 401. The Prophet assured 'Ali of full security under Allâh’s protection and told him that no harm would come to him.

Question 402. Where did the Prophet and Abu Bakr take refuge?
Answer 402. The Prophet and Abu Bakr took refuge in a cave on the peak of Mountain Thawr.


Page 104

Question 403. Who was Ali not mistaken for?
Answer 403. Ali was not mistaken for Muhammad.

Question 404. What did Abu Bakr do to seal the entrance of the cave?
Answer 404. Abu Bakr used pieces of his clothing to seal the entrance of the Cave Thawr.

Question 405. Who provided the Prophet and Abu Bakr with food and milk?
Answer 405. 'Amir bin Fuhairah provided the Prophet and Abu Bakr with food and milk.

Question 406. How did the Prophet alleviate the pain of Abu Bakr’s foot after it was stung by an insect?
Answer 406. The Prophet alleviated the pain of Abu Bakr’s foot by applying his saliva to it.

Question 407. What did Quraish offer as a reward for the capture of the Prophet and Abu Bakr?
Answer 407. Quraish offered a reward of 100 camels for the capture of the Prophet and Abu Bakr.


Page 105

Question 408. Who was trusted by Abu Bakr and hired as a guide?
Answer 408. Abdullah bin Uraiquit was trusted by Abu Bakr and hired as a guide.

Question 409. What was the plan Abu Bakr had for the "fugitives"?
Answer 409. Abu Bakr's plan was for the fugitives to depart the cave.

Question 410. Who brought food provisions for the travellers to tie in a bundle?
Answer 410. Asma’, daughter of Abu Bakr, brought the food provisions for the travellers.

Question 411. Who was Suraqah and what was his intention?
Answer 411. Suraqah was a bedouin who was trying to capture the Prophet in order to win the reward of 100 camels being offered by the Quraishites.

Question 412. What did the Prophet tell Suraqah after he realized his intention?
Answer 412. The Prophet told Suraqah that he had absolved himself of guilt and was free to go wherever he pleased.


Page 106

Question 413. Who was Umm Ma'bad Al-Khuza'iyah?
Answer 413. Umm Ma'bad Al-Khuza'iyah was a gracious lady who owned solitary tents in the area where Muhammad and his companions were making their journey to Madinah.

Question 414. What did Muhammad do to the goat of Umm Ma'bad?
Answer 414. Muhammad, with her permission, touched its udders, reciting over them the Name of Allâh, and to their great joy, there flowed plenty of milk out of them.

Question 415. What did Abu Ma'bad do when he heard his wife's account of the Prophet?
Answer 415. Abu Ma'bad expressed a sincere wish to accompany the Prophet whenever that was possible, and reiterated his admiration in verses of poetry that echoed all over Makkah.

Question 416. Who did the Prophet meet on his way to Madinah?
Answer 416. On his way to Madinah, the Prophet met Abu Buraidah, one of those driven by their lust for the reward of Quraish.

Question 417. What happened after Abu Buraidah faced the Prophet and talked with him?
Answer 417. No sooner did he face the Prophet and talk with him, than he embraced Islam along with the rest of the party and professed his adherence to the new faith.


Page 107

Question 418. Who was accompanying the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 418. seventy of his men.

Question 419. Where did they stop to perform the midday prayer?
Answer 419. At a place in the vale of Banu Salim.

Question 420. What was the reaction of the Madinese when they heard of the Prophet's arrival?
Answer 420. They rushed holding their weapons (to defend him) and shouts of ‘Allâhu Akbar’ (Allâh is Great) resounded in Banu ‘Amr bin ‘Auf.

Question 421. Who hosted the Prophet in Quba'?
Answer 421. Kulthum bin Al -Hadm, a hospitable chief of the tribe of ‘Amr bin ‘Awf.

Question 422. What happened on the Friday morning the Prophet arrived in Madinah?
Answer 422. The Prophet sent for Bani An -Najjar, his maternal uncles, to come and escort him and Abu Bakr to Madinah.


Page 108

Question 423. What did the tribes and families of Madinah do to welcome the Messenger?
Answer 423. They vied with one another to invite the Messenger to their homes and the girls of the Madinese chanted beautiful verses of welcome.

Question 424. Where did the camel of Muhammad alight to?
Answer 424. The camel of Muhammad alighted in a quarter inhabited by Banu Najjar, a tribe related to the Prophet from the maternal side.

Question 425. How did the Prophet respond to the people when they invited him to their homes?
Answer 425. He responded courteously and kindly, saying "This camel is commanded by Allâh, wherever it stops, that will be my abode."

Question 426. What did 'Aishah say when the Messenger of Allâh arrived in Madinah?
Answer 426. 'Aishah said that when the Messenger of Allâh arrived in Madinah, both Abu Bakr and Bilal fell ill and she briefed the Prophet on their grave situation.

Question 427. What did the Prophet pray for when he arrived in Madinah?
Answer 427. The Prophet prayed for a strong love for Madinah equal to, or even more than the love they used to have for Makkah and also to bless and increase the wealth of Madinah.


Page 109

Question 428. What three distinctively different categories of people did the Prophet have to deal with in Madinah?
Answer 428. The Prophet had to deal with three distinctively different categories of people in Madinah: His Companions, the noble and Allâh fearing elite; Polytheists still detached from the Islam and were purely Madinese tribes; and the Jews.

Question 429. What was the purpose of the Emigration to Madinah?
Answer 429. The purpose of the Emigration to Madinah was to erect the pillars of a new society in a secure place and to contribute to building this new homeland, immunizing it and holding up its prop.

Question 430. What was the first phase of the Madinese era characterized by?
Answer 430. The first phase of the Madinese era was characterized by too much trouble and discord, and too many obstacles from within coupled by a hostile wave from without aiming at total extermination of the rising faith.

Question 431. What was the Noble Messenger's role in the Emigration to Madinah?
Answer 431. The Noble Messenger's role in the Emigration to Madinah was as a leader and spiritual guide, with all affairs to be resolved in his hands exclusively.

Question 432. What two things made the conditions of life in Madinah different from those that the Companions experienced in Makkah?
Answer 432. The conditions of life in Madinah were different from those the Companions experienced in Makkah because they were at ease and could quite confidently handle the challenges of civilization, construction, means of living, economics, politics, government administration, war and peace, codification of the questions of the allowed and prohibited, worship, ethics and all the relevant issues, and also because it was a society that combined between citizenship and faith.


Page 110

Question 433. What does the construction of an Islamic society require?
Answer 433. The construction of an Islamic society requires a long time to build during which legislation and legalization will run gradually in a complementary process with mind cultivation, training and education.

Question 434. Who sent a Messenger to the unlettered ones?
Answer 434. Allâh, the All -Knowing, sent among the unlettered ones a Messenger (Muhammad ) from among themselves.

Question 435. What was the main challenge for the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 435. The main challenge for the Messenger of Allâh was to assimilate Qur’ânic rules and fill their hearts joyfully with them.

Question 436. Who was the leader of the group of hypocrites?
Answer 436. 'Abdullah bin Ubai was the leader of the group of hypocrites.

Question 437. What was the aim of the anti-Islamic groups?
Answer 437. The aim of the anti-Islamic groups was to impose an economic boycott to diminish imports and worsen living conditions.


Page 111

Question 438. Who were the Jews in Madinah?
Answer 438. The Jews in Madinah were three famous tribes: Banu Qainuqua‘, allies of Al -Khazraj tribe, Banu An -Nadir and Banu Quraizah who allied Al -Aws and inhabited the suburbs of Madinah.

Question 439. What did the Jews do to stay in power?
Answer 439. The Jews used to pride in their Jewish-Israeli origin, and spurn the Arabs around designating them as illiterate. They desired the wealth of their neighbours to be made lawful to them and they could thus appropriate it the way they liked. They excelled at the arts of earning money and trading, and used to sow seeds of discord between adjacent tribes and entice each one to hatch plots against the other with the natural corollary of continual exhaustive bloody fighting.

Question 440. What were the Jews religious practices?
Answer 440. Religiously, the Jews showed no zeal; their most obvious religious commodity was fortunetelling, witchcraft and the secret arts (blowing on knots), for which they used to attach to themselves advantages of science and spiritual precedence.

Question 441. How did the Jews feel about the rise of Islam?
Answer 441. Naturally the Jews held the new changes with abhorrence and were terribly hateful to them, simply because the Messenger of Allâh was of a different race, and this point was in itself too repugnant for them to reconcile with. Second, Islam came to bring about a spirit of rapport, to terminate the state of enmity and hatred, and to establish a social regime based on denunciation of the prohibited and promotion of the allowed.

Question 442. What was the consequence of the Jews practices?
Answer 442. The consequence of the Jews practices was that they gained heavy interest rates on loans spent on inter -tribal warfare, and the Arabs had to pay heavily for the services they offered. In addition, they sowed seeds of discord between adjacent tribes and enticed each one to hatch plots against the other with the natural corollary of continual exhaustive bloody fighting.


Page 112

Question 443. Who was Ibn Ishaq?
Answer 443. Ibn Ishaq was an Arab Muslim historian, pre-Islamic historian and genealogist.

Question 444. What was the mental disturbance and deep anxiety that beset the Jews when the Prophet first stepped in Madinah?
Answer 444. The Jews were worried about the new political and religious changes that came to stamp the life of Madinah due to the arrival of the Prophet.

Question 445. Who was 'Abdullah bin Salam?
Answer 445. 'Abdullah bin Salam was the most learned rabbi among the Jews.

Question 446. What were the attempts made by Quraish to stop the spread of Islam?
Answer 446. Quraish subjected the Muslims to all sorts of terrorism, boycott, harassment and starvation coupled by a large scale painstaking psychological war and aggressive organized propaganda.

Question 447. What actions were taken by the Muslims in Madinah to stop the tyrants of Makkah?
Answer 447. The Muslims in Madinah were completely eligible to confiscate the wealth of those tyrants, mete out for them exemplary punishment and bring twofold retaliation in revenge for every injury or injustice that befell them.


Page 113

Question 448. What were the major problems that the Prophet Muhammad had to face?
Answer 448. The Prophet Muhammad had to face complicated issues and responsibilities of Messengership as well as temporal and religious leadership in Madinah.

Question 449. What approach did the Prophet Muhammad take in resolving these issues?
Answer 449. The Prophet Muhammad shouldered the responsibilities of Messengership and discharged the liabilities of both temporal and religious leadership in Madinah with mercy and punishment.

Question 450. What did the Prophet Muhammad do to ensure the establishment of Islam?
Answer 450. The Prophet Muhammad accorded to everyone his due portion of mercy or punishment in order to establish Islam on firm grounds among its faithful adherents.

Question 451. How did the Prophet Muhammad show mercy or punishment?
Answer 451. The Prophet Muhammad usually seasoned mercy with punishment in the overall process of establishing Islam on firm grounds among its faithful adherents.

Question 452. What advice can we take away from the example of the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 452. We can take away the advice to always accord to everyone their due portion of mercy or punishment in order to avoid any folly against Muslims and their sanctities.


Page 114

Question 453. What did the Muslims have to do in Madinah?
Answer 453. They had to contribute to building a new homeland, immunizing it and holding up its prop, in order to establish a new Muslim community that ran in line with Islamic ethics and precepts.

Question 454. What types of people were in Madinah?
Answer 454. There were three distinctively different categories of people in Madinah: His Companions, the noble and Allâh fearing elite; Polytheists still detached from the Islam and were purely Madinese tribes; and The Jews.

Question 455. What were the conditions of life in Makkah?
Answer 455. In Makkah, the Muslims were scattered, overpowered and forsaken. They were helpless in terms of pursuing their new course of orientation, and their means, socially and materially, fell short of establishing a new Muslim community.

Question 456. What were the Muslims free to do in Madinah?
Answer 456. In Madinah, the Muslims were free to handle the challenges of civilization, construction, means of living, economics, politics, government administration, war and peace, codification of the questions of the allowed and prohibited, worship, ethics and all the relevant issues.

Question 457. According to the text, what did Allāh and His Prophet Muhammad do?
Answer 457. Allāh undertook legislation and His Prophet Muhammad undertook implementation and orientation.


Page 115

Question 458. Who were the two parties in Madinah?
Answer 458. The two parties in Madinah were Al-Ansar, who were already settled, and Al-Muhajirun, the emigrants who were homeless and jobless.

Question 459. What was the purpose of the Muhammadan mission?
Answer 459. The purpose of the Muhammadan mission was to assimilate Qur’anic rules and fill hearts with them.

Question 460. Who were the third demographic sector in Madinah?
Answer 460. The third demographic sector in Madinah were the Jews (the Hebrews) who had migrated to Al-Hijaz from Syria.

Question 461. How did the Jews view their Arabian neighbors?
Answer 461. The Jews viewed their Arabian neighbors as illiterate, meaning brutal, naive, and backward.

Question 462. What was the task of the Messenger of Allah?
Answer 462. The task of the Messenger of Allah was to challenge the Muslims to assimilate Qur’anic rules and fill their hearts joyfully with them.


Page 116

Question 463. What did the Jews excel at?
Answer 463. The Jews excelled at the arts of earning money and trading, as well as corrupting and scheming.

Question 464. What did the Arabs pay the Jews for?
Answer 464. The Arabs paid the Jews heavily for the services they offered to them.

Question 465. What three tribes constituted the demographic presence in Yathrib?
Answer 465. The three tribes of Jews that constituted the demographic presence in Yathrib were Banu Qainuqua’, Banu An-Nadir and Banu Quraizah.

Question 466. What did the Jews harbour towards the new political and religious changes that came to stamp the life of Madinah?
Answer 466. The Jews harboured the most enmity and hatred to Islam and the Messenger.

Question 467. What did the Jews use to attach to themselves advantages of science and spiritual precedence?
Answer 467. The Jews used to attach to themselves advantages of science and spiritual precedence through the use of fortunetelling, witchcraft, and the secret arts (blowing on knots).


Page 117

Question 468. Who was 'Abdullah bin Salam?
Answer 468. He was the most learned rabbi among the Jews and embraced Islam when the Prophet arrived.

Question 469. What did 'Abdullah bin Salam say to the Jews?
Answer 469. He said "O Jews! Be Allâh fearing. By Allâh, the only One, you know that he is the Messenger of Allâh sent to people with the Truth."

Question 470. What threats did the Muslims face in Makkah?
Answer 470. The Muslims faced terrorism, boycott, harassment, starvation, a large scale psychological war, and aggressive organized propaganda.

Question 471. What did the Quraishites do to entice the Arabians against Madinah?
Answer 471. The Quraishites schemed and made attempts on the life of the first figure of the Call, Muhammad, and enticed the Arabians against Madinah through social and economic boycotts.

Question 472. How did the Prophet Muhammad shoulder and discharge his responsibilities?
Answer 472. The Prophet Muhammad honestly shouldered the responsibilities of Messengership, and discharged the liabilities of both temporal and religious leadership in Madinah by giving everyone their due portion of mercy or punishment.


Page 118

Answer 472. The Qiblah (the direction in which the Muslims turn their faces in prayer) faced Jerusalem.

Answer 472. The Prophet implemented the practice of "brotherhood-in-faith" which held every distinction of race and kindred subordinate and supported the Islamic precept that none is superior to the other except on the basis of piety and God-fearing.

Answer 472. The regular rule of inheritance was allowed to take its usual course after the verse "But kindred by blood are nearer to one another regarding inheritance" was revealed at the time of the battle of Badr.


Page 119

Question 473. What did the charter of Islamic Alliance establish?
Answer 473. The charter of Islamic Alliance established friendly relations between the Muslims and non-Muslim tribes of Arabia and aimed to rule out all pre-Islamic rancour and inter-tribal feuds.

Question 474. What did Sa'd bin Ar-Rabi' offer 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Awf?
Answer 474. Sa'd bin Ar-Rabi' offered to share his property half and half with 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Awf and to divorce one of his wives so 'Abdur Rahman could marry her.

Question 475. What happened to the orchards of palm trees?
Answer 475. The Emigrants and the Helpers agreed to work in the orchards together and share the yield equally.

Question 476. What was the atmosphere of brotherhood between the Emigrants and Helpers?
Answer 476. The atmosphere of brotherhood between the Emigrants and Helpers was one of selflessness and sacrifice, and produced very healthy results and cordial relationships.

Question 477. What was the Prophet's response to the Helpers' request of distributing the orchards?
Answer 477. The Prophet was reluctant to put the heavy burden of distributing the orchards on the Helpers, but they eventually agreed on the Emigrants and Helpers working in the orchards together and sharing the yield equally.


Page 120

Question 478. What does the Prophet emphasize to his followers?
Answer 478. The Prophet emphasized providing food and extending greetings to one another, maintaining uterine relations, and observing prayer at night.

Question 479. What did 'Abdullah bin Salâm recognize about the Prophet?
Answer 479. 'Abdullah bin Salâm recognized that the Prophet would never be a liar.

Question 480. What does the text say should be done to those who spread enmity and sedition?
Answer 480. The text states that the hand of every God-fearing Muslim should be against those who spread enmity and sedition.

Question 481. What is the consequence for killing a believer with no good reason?
Answer 481. The consequence for killing a believer with no good reason is that the killer must be killed, unless the sponsor deems it otherwise.

Question 482. What did the Prophet say was necessary to enter the Garden (Paradise)?
Answer 482. The Prophet said it was necessary to extend peace greetings amongst each other, provide food to the needy, maintain uterine relations, and observe prayer at night in order to peacefully enter the Garden (Paradise).


Page 121

Question 483. What is a Muslim?
Answer 483. A Muslim is someone from whose tongue and hand the Muslims are safe.

Question 484. What did the Prophet Muhammad say about believing in Allah?
Answer 484. The Prophet Muhammad said, "None amongst you believes (truly) till one likes for his brother that which he loves for himself."

Question 485. What did the Prophet Muhammad say about caring for one's neighbor?
Answer 485. The Prophet Muhammad said, "He will not enter Paradise, he whose neighbour is not secure from his wrongful conduct."

Question 486. What did the Prophet Muhammad say about showing mercy to others?
Answer 486. The Prophet Muhammad said, "Show mercy to people on earth so that Allâh will have mercy on you in heaven."

Question 487. What did the Prophet Muhammad say about charity?
Answer 487. The Prophet Muhammad said, "To remove something harmful from the road, is charity."


Page 122

Question 488. What did the Prophet exhort the believers to spend in?
Answer 488. Charity.

Question 489. What did the Prophet compare the bonds of brotherhood between two Muslims to?
Answer 489. Parts of a house.

Question 490. How long should a Muslim not desert a brother for?
Answer 490. Three days.

Question 491. What did Abdullah bin Mas'ud advise people to follow as an example?
Answer 491. The traditions of the deceased.

Question 492. What did the Prophet encourage people to do more than asking others for help?
Answer 492. Observing the prescribed worships and rituals.


Page 123

Question 493. What attributes did the Prophet want to build a new society on?
Answer 493. The Prophet wanted to build a new society on the attributes and qualities of a lofty morale.

Question 494. What did the Prophet's Companions do when he would utter a word?
Answer 494. The Prophet's Companions would race to assimilate it and work in its light.

Question 495. How did the Prophet strive to resolve longstanding problems?
Answer 495. The Prophet strove to resolve the longstanding problems by building a new society with integrated components immune to all fluctuations of time.

Question 496. What did the Prophet's actions give mankind?
Answer 496. The Prophet's actions gave mankind the chance to breathe a sigh of relief after a long wearying journey in dark and gloomy avenues.

Question 497. What did the Prophet hope to accomplish with his actions?
Answer 497. The Prophet hoped to create a new society with powerful enough to change the whole course of humanity.


Page 124

Question 498. What was the purpose of establishing regular and clearly defined relations with non-Muslims?
Answer 498. The purpose of establishing regular and clearly defined relations with non-Muslims was to provide peace, security, and prosperity to all mankind at large, and to bring about a spirit of rapport and harmony within the region.

Question 499. What were some of the provisions of the treaty between the Muslims and the Jews?
Answer 499. Some of the provisions of the treaty between the Muslims and the Jews included the Jews being responsible for their own expenditure, both parties aiding each other if attacked by a third party, abstaining from committing sins to the prejudice of the other, mutual relations being founded on righteousness, and each party contributing to the cost of war and defending Madinah in case of a foreign attack.

Question 500. What happened to Madinah and its suburbs after the treaty was ratified?
Answer 500. After the treaty was ratified, Madinah and its suburbs turned into a coalition state, with Madinah proper being the capital and Muhammad as the ‘president’ and authorities laying mainly in the hand of the Muslims.

Question 501. What was the Prophet's intention when he ratified the treaty with the Jews?
Answer 501. The Prophet's intention when he ratified the treaty with the Jews was to provide peace, security, and prosperity to all mankind at large, and to bring about a spirit of rapport and harmony within the region.

Question 502. What did the treaty exclude?
Answer 502. The treaty excluded sin and provided that any disagreements between the signatories to the treaty would be settled by Allah and His Messenger.


Page 125

Question 503. Who did the Quraishites send an ultimatum to?
Answer 503. The Quraishites sent an ultimatum to ‘Abdullah bin Uabi bin Salul, chief of Madinese polytheists.

Question 504. What did Abdullah bin Uabi bin Salul decide to do in response to the ultimatum?
Answer 504. Abdullah bin Uabi bin Salul decided to mobilize his supporters to counteract the Muslims.

Question 505. What did Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh do in Makkah?
Answer 505. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh went to Makkah to observe ‘Umrah (lesser pilgrimage).

Question 506. What precautionary measures did the Prophet take to prepare for the confrontation with polytheists?
Answer 506. The Prophet took measures such as positioning security guards around his house and strategic locations, as well as a state of alertness.

Question 507. What did the Prophet do when he received the words of God saying "Allâh will protect you from mankind"?
Answer 507. The Prophet peeped from the dome of his house asking his people to go away and making it clear that Allâh would take the charge of protecting him.


Page 126

Question 508. What was the purpose of Allâh giving Muslims permission to take arms against the disbelievers?
Answer 508. Allâh gave the Muslims the permission to take arms against the disbelievers in order to eradicate all aspects of falsehood, and hold in honour the symbols and rites of Allâh.

Question 509. What were the two options given to the Prophet in light of the status quo?
Answer 509. The two options given to the Prophet were to enter into non-aggression pacts with tribes adjacent to the trade routes and to despatch successive armed missions for harassment along the strategic commercial routes.

Question 510. What did the Prophet want to display to polytheists and Jews of Madinah?
Answer 510. The Prophet wanted to display to polytheists and Jews of Madinah that the Muslims had smashed their old fears and were too strong to be attacked with impunity.

Question 511. What was the purpose of the pre-Badr missions and invasions?
Answer 511. The purpose of the pre-Badr missions and invasions was to explore the geopolitical features of the roads surrounding Madinah and others leading to Makkah, and building alliances with the tribes nearby.

Question 512. What did the Prophet hope to achieve in displaying the power of his followers?
Answer 512. The Prophet hoped to deter Quraish from committing any military folly against him which might imperil the truce they had signed.


Page 127

Question 513. Who was leading the Saif Al-Bahr Platoon?
Answer 513. Hamzah bin ‘Abdul Muttalib was leading the Saif Al-Bahr Platoon.

Question 514. How many people were in the Quraish caravan that was intercepted?
Answer 514. There were 300 people in the Quraish caravan that was intercepted.

Question 515. Who was entrusted with carrying the flag during the first mission?
Answer 515. Kinaz bin Husain Al - Ghanawi was entrusted with carrying the flag during the first mission.

Question 516. What color was the flag?
Answer 516. The flag was white in color.

Question 517. What was the name of the first invasion under the leadership of the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 517. The first invasion under the leadership of the Messenger of Allâh was called Ghazwa Al -Abwa’ or Waddan.


Page 128

Question 518. What date did the Buwat Invasion take place?
Answer 518. The Buwat Invasion took place in Rabi‘ Al-Awwal 2 A.H., i.e. 623 A.D.

Question 519. Who was entrusted with the disposition of the affairs in Madinah during the Safwan Invasion?
Answer 519. During the Safwan Invasion, the Prophet entrusted Zaid bin Harithah with the disposition of the affairs in Madinah.

Question 520. What is the purpose of the Platoon of Nakhlah?
Answer 520. The purpose of the Platoon of Nakhlah was to intercept a caravan for Quraish and collect news about their intentions.

Question 521. What event caused the battle of Badr to break out?
Answer 521. The Dhil ‘Ushairah Invasion caused the battle of Badr to break out.

Question 522. What action did the Messenger of Allâh disapprove of?
Answer 522. The Messenger of Allâh disapproved of the Muslims taking the booty and the two prisoners from the Platoon of Nakhlah.


Page 129

Question 523. What are the sacred months in Islamic calendar?
Answer 523. The 1st, 7th, 11th and 12th months of the Islamic calendar.

Question 524. What does the text say about the Prophet's life?
Answer 524. The text states that the Prophet had been the target of repeated attempts on his life.

Question 525. What did the Muslims do in response to the polytheists' actions?
Answer 525. The Muslims were ordered to go to war in Sha‘ban 2 A.H at the behest of their Lord.

Question 526. What was the consequence of the polytheists' recklessness?
Answer 526. The polytheists' recklessness led to the great battle of Badr.

Question 527. What did the Muslims do to prevent access to Al-Masjid-Al-Harâm (at Makkah)?
Answer 527. The Muslims were ordered to fight to prevent access to Al-Masjid-Al-Harâm (at Makkah) and to drive out its inhabitants.


Page 130

Answer 527. Allah sent the Muslims verses urging them to go to war and demonstrating relevant rules.

Answer 527. When a decisive surah was sent down, those with disease of hypocrisy looked at the Muslims with a look of one fainting to death.

Answer 527. During the month of Sha'ban in the year 2 AH, Allah ordered that the Al-Qiblah be changed from Jerusalem to the Sacred Mosque in Makkah.

Answer 527. The change in Al-Qiblah purged the ranks of the Muslims of discord-prone elements and referred to a new role awaiting the Muslims to take up.

Answer 527. Events such as learning ways of fighting and slaughtering the pagan soldiers until the war ended led to a final triumph for the Muslims.


Page 131

Question 528. What is the Sacred City of the Muslims?
Answer 528. The Sacred City of the Muslims is Makkah.

Question 529. Why did the Muslims repatriate to Makkah?
Answer 529. The Muslims repatriated to Makkah so that they would not leave their Qiblah at the mercy of non-Muslims.

Question 530. What was the result of the Muslims repatriating to Makkah?
Answer 530. The result of the Muslims repatriating to Makkah was that their activities and tendency towards striving in the cause of Allah and encountering His enemies in a decisive battle were greatly intensified.

Question 531. What is Qiblah?
Answer 531. Qiblah is the direction that Muslims face when performing certain ritual prayers.

Question 532. How did the Muslims respond to Allah's instructions?
Answer 532. The Muslims responded to Allah's instructions by repatriating to their Sacred City, Makkah.


Page 132

Question 533. What were the numbers of the Muslim army that the Prophet took to the Battle of Badr?
Answer 533. The Muslim army was made up of 300-317 men, 82-86 Emigrants, 61 from Aws and 170 from Khazraj.

Question 534. Who was given the general leadership of the Muslim army?
Answer 534. Mus‘ab bin ‘Umair Al -Qurashi Al -‘Abdari was given the general leadership.

Question 535. Who was in charge of the rear of the Muslim army?
Answer 535. Qais bin Abi Sa‘sa‘ah was in charge of the rear of the Muslim army.

Question 536. Who was appointed to lead the right flank of the Muslim army?
Answer 536. Az-Zubair bin Al -‘Awwam was appointed to lead the right flank.

Question 537. What was the color of the standard of the Emigrants?
Answer 537. The standard of the Emigrants was white in color.


Page 133

Question 538. Who was the leader of Quraish when they mobilized to fight against the Muslims?
Answer 538. Abu Jahl was the leader of Quraish when they mobilized to fight against the Muslims.

Question 539. What did Abu Sufyan do to avoid the ambush of the Muslims?
Answer 539. Abu Sufyan led his caravan off the main route and inclined it towards the Red Sea to avoid the ambush of the Muslims.

Question 540. How many soldiers were in the Makkan army?
Answer 540. The Makkan army had 1300 soldiers, including 100 horsemen and 600 mailed soldiers.

Question 541. Why did Banu Zahrah decide to break away and return to Makkah?
Answer 541. Banu Zahrah decided to break away and return to Makkah after receiving a message from Abu Sufyan indicating that the caravan had escaped the Muslims.

Question 542. What was the condition of Banu Hashim when Abu Jahl threatened them?
Answer 542. Banu Hashim were inclined to breaking away when Abu Jahl threatened them, but his threats made them desist from that idea.


Page 134

Question 543. Who made up the majority of the soldiers of the Muslim army?
Answer 543. The Helpers were the majority of the soldiers.

Question 544. How many soldiers were in the Muslim army?
Answer 544. There were 1000 soldiers in the Muslim army.

Question 545. What did the Prophet hold an advisory meeting for?
Answer 545. The Prophet held an advisory military emergency meeting to review the ongoing situation and exchange viewpoints with the army leaders.

Question 546. What were the Muslims afraid of?
Answer 546. The Muslims were afraid that the pagan Makkans would march on and start the war activities within the headquarters of Islam, Madinah.

Question 547. What did the Prophet ask for advice on?
Answer 547. The Prophet asked for advice on the gravity of the situation.


Page 135

Question 548. Who said "By Allâh, I feel you want us (the Helpers) to speak"?
Answer 548. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh said this.

Question 549. What did the Prophet promise the Helpers?
Answer 549. The Prophet promised the Helpers one of two things: the lucrative course through capturing the booty or strife in the cause of Allâh against the polytheists.

Question 550. Who did the Prophet send to scout Quraish's camp?
Answer 550. The Prophet sent 'Ali bin Abi Talib, Az-Zubair bin Al-'Awwam and Sa‘d bin Abi Waqqas to scout about for news about the enemy.

Question 551. What did Al-Hubab bin Mundhir ask the Prophet?
Answer 551. Al-Hubab bin Mundhir asked the Prophet, "Has Allâh inspired you to choose this very spot or is it stratagem of war and the product of consultation?"

Question 552. What did the Prophet and his cavemate Abu Bakr do to locate the camp of Quraish?
Answer 552. The Prophet and his cavemate Abu Bakr conducted a scouting operation during which they managed to locate the camp of Quraish.


Page 136

Question 553. What suggestion did Sa'd bin Mu'adh propose?
Answer 553. Sa'd bin Mu'adh proposed that a trellis be built for the Prophet to function as headquarters for the Muslim army and a place providing reasonable protection for the leader.

Question 554. When did the Prophet draw up the Muslim army?
Answer 554. The Prophet drew up the Muslim army as the sun rose over the desert on Friday morning, Ramadan 17th, in the year 2 A.H.

Question 555. Who made a scouting mission to reconnoiter the power of the Muslims?
Answer 555. 'Umair bin Wahab Al-Jumahi made a scouting mission to reconnoiter the power of the Muslims.

Question 556. What did Abu Jahl do to counter the people's reasoning opposition?
Answer 556. Abu Jahl launched an anti-campaign seeking vengeance on Muhammad's followers for the Quraishites killed at Nakhlah in order to counter the people's reasoning opposition.

Question 557. What did the Prophet do the night before the battle?
Answer 557. The Prophet spent the whole night preceding the day of the battle in prayer and supplication.


Page 137

Question 558. What did the Prophet ( peace be upon him ) recommend his men to use sparingly?
Answer 558. He recommended that they use their arrows sparingly.

Question 559. Who was the first disbeliever to trigger the fire of the battle and be its first victim?
Answer 559. Al-Aswad bin ‘Abdul Asad Al-Makhzumi was the first disbeliever to trigger the fire of the battle and be its first victim.

Question 560. Who did the Makkans yell they wanted the heads of?
Answer 560. They yelled they wanted the heads of their cousins.

Question 561. What did Allâh’s Words reveal in connection with men of Faith?
Answer 561. Allâh’s Words revealed that these men of Faith confessed their Lord and sought to carry out His Will.

Question 562. What tactics did the Prophet ( peace be upon him ) use to assist the Muslims in their victory?
Answer 562. The Prophet ( peace be upon him ) used some tactics such as supplicating to their Lord, calling upon Him for assistance, and conducting a defensive war plan that was successful enough to inflict heavy losses on the attackers.


Page 138

Question 563. What did the Prophet do when the fierce engagement grew too hot?
Answer 563. The Prophet began to supplicate his Lord, stretching forth his hands and facing Al-Qiblah, until his cloak fell off his shoulders.

Question 564. What did Allâh do to help the Prophet and his companions?
Answer 564. Allâh sent down angels from the heavens for the help and assistance of the Prophet and his companions.

Question 565. What did the Prophet do at the instance of Gabriel?
Answer 565. At the instance of Gabriel, the Prophet took a handful of gravel, cast it at the enemy and said: "Confusion seize their faces!"

Question 566. What words of Allâh did the Prophet recite to his men to inspire confidence?
Answer 566. The Prophet recited the Words of Allâh, "And be quick for forgiveness from your Lord, and for Paradise as wide as are the heavens and the earth."

Question 567. How did the Prophet pray to his Lord?
Answer 567. The Prophet prayed to his Lord ceaselessly, persistently and day and night to come to their succour.


Page 139

Question 568. Who said "These (the dates) are holding me back from Paradise"?
Answer 568. Umair, a lad of sixteen.

Question 569. Who said "O Messenger of Allâh, by Allâh this man did not capture me"?
Answer 569. Abbas bin 'Abdul Muttalib.

Question 570. Who made a quick retreat despite the polytheists' pleas to stay on?
Answer 570. Iblîs, the archsatan.

Question 571. Who adjured the polytheists to stand firm in place and retaliate against the Muslims?
Answer 571. Abu Jahl.

Question 572. Who said "Be not faint -hearted and seek the pleasure of Allâh by striving hard in His Cause and cheer up"?
Answer 572. Two youths, still seemingly inexperienced in the art of fighting.


Page 140

Question 573. Who were two of the companions that Prophet Muhammad advised to preserve their lives at the Battle of Badr?
Answer 573. Al-‘Abbas bin ‘Abdul Muttalib and Abu Bukhtari bin Hisham.

Question 574. What did Abu Hudhaifah suggest to do with Al-‘Abbas when they found him in Badr?
Answer 574. Abu Hudhaifah suggested he would strike him with his sword.

Question 575. What did the Prophet of Allah say when he heard Abu Hudhaifah's suggestion?
Answer 575. The Prophet of Allah said "Is it fair that the face of the Messenger’s uncle be struck with sword?"

Question 576. Who was the man who stepped on Abu Jahl's neck and asked him if he saw how Allah had disgraced him?
Answer 576. 'Abdullah bin Mas‘ud

Question 577. What did Abu Jahl respond when he was asked if he was disgraced?
Answer 577. Abu Jahl responded with "I am not disgraced. I am no more than a man killed by his own people on the battlefield."


Page 141

Question 578. Who did 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf try to amicably address the embarrassing situation between?
Answer 578. 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf tried to amicably address the embarrassing situation between Bilal and Omaiyah bin Khalaf.

Question 579. What did 'Umar bin Al-Khattab do during the battle of Badr?
Answer 579. 'Umar bin Al-Khattab did not spare the life of any polytheist even his uncle on the maternal side Al-'As bin Hisham bin Al-Mugheerah.

Question 580. How did 'Ukashah bin Mihsan Al-Asdi obtain his sword?
Answer 580. The Prophet gave 'Ukashah bin Mihsan Al-Asdi a log of wood which he shook and it immediately turned into a long strong white sword.

Question 581. Who did Abu Bakr address during the battle of Badr?
Answer 581. Abu Bakr addressed his son 'Abdur-Rahman, still a polytheist and fighting with them, during the battle of Badr.

Question 582. How did the Prophet comfort Abu Hudhaifah bin ‘Utbah?
Answer 582. The Prophet saw how Abu Hudhaifah was feeling and provided him a garment to cover his father’s corpse until he was buried.


Page 142

Question 583. What kind of outcome happened in the battle?
Answer 583. The outcome of the battle was a manifest victory for the Muslims and an ignominious rout for the polytheists. Fourteen Muslims were killed, and the polytheists sustained heavy casualties with seventy killed and a like number taken prisoners.


Page 143

Question 584. Who conveyed the news of victory to Madinah?
Answer 584. Abdullah bin Rawahah and Zaid bin Harithah were despatched to Madinah to convey the news of victory to the Muslims there.

Question 585. How did the Muslims respond to the news of victory?
Answer 585. The Muslims immediately started acclaiming Allâh’s Name and entertaining His praise at the top of their voices.

Question 586. What dispute concerning the spoils of war arose among the Muslim warriors?
Answer 586. The dispute concerning the spoils of war was that the Muslims who collected the booty said they had the right to it while those who had pursued the enemy argued they had more right to it and those who had been guarding the Prophet also made similar claims.

Question 587. What did the Qur’anic verse say about the spoils of war?
Answer 587. The Qur’anic verse said: "They ask you (O Muhammad ) about the spoils of war. Say: ‘The spoils are for Allâh and the Messenger.’ So fear Allâh and a djust all matters of difference among you, and obey Allâh and His Messenger (Muhammad  ), if you are believers."

Question 588. Who were the two prisoners ordered to be killed by the Prophet?
Answer 588. The two prisoners ordered to be killed by the Prophet were An-Nadr bin Al -Harith and ‘Uqbah bin Abi Muait, because they had persecuted the Prophet  and the Muslims prior to their immigration from Makkah.


Page 144

Question 589. What were the people of Makkah?
Answer 589. They were criminals of war in modern terminology and harboured deep hatred towards Allâh and His Messenger

Question 590. Who struck off the heads of 'Uqbah and the other criminal?
Answer 590. 'Ali bin Abi Talib struck off their heads.

Question 591. What did Usaid bin Hudair say to the Prophet ?
Answer 591. Usaid bin Hudair said that if he had known the Prophet's mission was for war, not for intercepting a caravan of camels, he would have never tarried.

Question 592. What did Abu Bakr suggest as a resolution for the prisoners of war?
Answer 592. Abu Bakr suggested that the Prophet should ransom them, explaining that the money would give them strength against the disbelievers and that Allâh could guide them to Islam.

Question 593. What was the Divine ordainment stated in the Qur’ânic verse?
Answer 593. The Divine ordainment stated in the Qur’ânic verse was that it is not for a Prophet that he should have prisoners of war (and free them  with ransom) until he had made a great slaughter (among his enemies).


Page 145

Question 594. What was the ransom amount for the prisoners taken to Madinah?
Answer 594. The ransom for the prisoners ranged between 4000 and 1000 Dirhams in accordance with the captive’s financial situation.

Question 595. How did some of the captives from Makkah get released?
Answer 595. Some captives from Makkah were released unransomed on grounds of being hard up, and some were released in return for setting an Abu Sufyan's son free.

Question 596. Why was the suggestion to pull out the front teeth of Suhail bin 'Amr rejected?
Answer 596. The suggestion to pull out the front teeth of Suhail bin 'Amr was rejected for fear Quraish should retaliate in the same manner on one hand, and on the other for fear of Allâh’s wrath on the Day of Resurrection.

Question 597. What was the Chapter of Al-Anfal revealed on?
Answer 597. The Chapter of Al-Anfal was revealed on the occasion of the battle of Badr, Ramadan 17th 2 A.H.

Question 598. What were the noble objectives for which the Messenger launched the battle of Badr?
Answer 598. The noble objectives for which the Messenger launched the battle of Badr were to build an integrated, purified society; to rid the Muslims of any trait of haughtiness or arrogance; to turn to Allâh for help, obey Him and His Messenger; to admonish the polytheists, hypocrites, and Jews to surrender to the Truth and adhere to it only.


Page 146

Question 599. What laws and rules were codified related to war and peace?
Answer 599. The laws and rules pertinent to war and peace were legalized and codified, especially at this advanced stage of the Islamic action.

Question 600. What bad event was overshadowed by a wonderful and striking coincidence?
Answer 600. The wonderful and striking coincidence was the establishment of Shawwal 'Eid (the Festival of the Fast-Breaking) directly after the manifest victory of Badr.

Question 601. What did Allah want the Muslims to do differently than pre-Islamic practices?
Answer 601. Allah wanted the Muslims to follow war ethics dissimilar to those of pre-Islamic practices.

Question 602. What obligation was imposed on the Muslims in the year 2 A.H.?
Answer 602. The fast of Ramadan was established as an obligatory observance in the year 2 A.H., appended by the duty imposed upon Muslims of paying Zakat (alms tax, poor-due) in order to alleviate the burden of the needy Emigrants.

Question 603. What verse in the Quran are Muslims reminded to remember?
Answer 603. Muslims are reminded to remember the verse "And remember when you were few and were reckoned weak in the land, and were afraid that men might kidnap you, but He provided a safe place for you, strengthened you with His help, and provided you with good things so that you might be grateful." (Qur'an 8:26).


Page 147

Question 604. What was the cause of the battle of Badr?
Answer 604. The battle of Badr was the first armed encounter between the Muslims and Quraish, and was a decisive battle that gained the Muslims a historic victory.

Question 605. Who were other parties besides the Muslims and Quraish involved?
Answer 605. There were also the Jews and hypocrites who faked Islam in order to save their faces, as well as desert bedouins who lived in the vicinity of Madinah.

Question 606. What was the motivation behind the hostile movements of Banu Saleem of Ghatafan?
Answer 606. Banu Saleem were motivated by fear of losing their means of subsistence in case a powerful nascent Muslim state should rise up and put an end to their ill-practices.

Question 607. What was the result of the Al-Kudr Invasion?
Answer 607. The Prophet mounted a surprise attack on Banu Saleem and they fled before his arrival. He stayed there for three days and took their 500 camels as booty, distributing them to the fighters after setting aside the usual one-fifth and each one gaining two camels.

Question 608. What did the Muslims gain from the victory at Badr?
Answer 608. The Muslims gained a historic victory at Badr which was acknowledged by all the Arabs and dealt a heavy blow to the religioeconomic interests of the polytheists and Jews.


Page 148

Question 609. What caused the Makkans to resent and become indignant?
Answer 609. The Makkans were resentful and indignant due to their defeat at Badr.

Question 610. What did Safwan offer to Umair to carry out his plan?
Answer 610. Safwan offered to discharge 'Umair's debts and support his family if he went on with his plan.

Question 611. What did Umar bin Al-Khattab notice when Umair arrived at the mosque?
Answer 611. Umar bin Al-Khattab noticed that Umair had come with evil intentions when he arrived at the mosque.

Question 612. What did the Prophet do when Umair refused to reveal his real goal?
Answer 612. When Umair refused to reveal his real goal, the Prophet became impatient and revealed his secret mission himself.

Question 613. What did Shas bin Qais do when he passed by a group of Companions?
Answer 613. Shas bin Qais shouted at the group of Companions, warning them not to be deceived by their new religion and Muhammad's prophethood.


Page 149

Question 614. What was the Prophet's intention of sending a youth to recite some of the verses they used to compose?
Answer 614. The Prophet's intention was to sow the seeds of discord and disagreement and undermine the new Islamically-orientated inter-tribal relations.

Question 615. What kind of jobs did the Banu Qainuqa' tribe take up?
Answer 615. The Banu Qainuqa' tribe took up goldsmithery, blacksmithing, and crafts of making household instruments.

Question 616. What were the Jews attempting to do in order to demolish the new religion?
Answer 616. The Jews were attempting to tighten the ropes of financial dealings on the Muslims, shirk their obligations if they owed money to a Muslim, and harass them day and night to pay back the debt.

Question 617. What did the Prophet do when he heard of the Jews' actions?
Answer 617. The Prophet gathered them in an assemblage, admonished and called them to be rational, sensible, and guided, and cautioned against further transgression.

Question 618. How did the Jews respond to the Prophet's warning?
Answer 618. The Jews remained obdurate and paid no heed to the Prophet's warning, and said, "Don't be deluded on account of defeating some Quraishites inexperienced in the art of war. If you were to engage us in fight, you will realize that we are genuine war experts."


Page 150

Question 619. Who provoked a Muslim woman which lead to a battle?
Answer 619. A Jewish goldsmith provoked a Muslim woman.

Question 620. How long did the siege last on the Jews' fort?
Answer 620. The siege lasted 15 days.

Question 621. Who carried the standard of the Muslims in the battle?
Answer 621. Hamzah bin ‘Abdul Muttalib carried the standard of the Muslims.

Question 622. How did Muhammad deal with Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul?
Answer 622. Muhammad dealt with this man as being a Muslim and granted him his request.

Question 623. How many men did Abu Sufyan lead to Madinah?
Answer 623. Abu Sufyan led 200 men to Madinah.


Page 151

Question 624. Who raided Al -‘Uraid?
Answer 624. A group of men led by the Jew.

Question 625. When did the Dhi Amr Invasion take place?
Answer 625. The Dhi Amr Invasion took place in Dhul -Hijjah 2 A.H.

Question 626. Who was Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf?
Answer 626. Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf was a wealthy man belonging to the Tai’ tribe who was known for his handsomeness, and a poet living in luxury in Madinah.

Question 627. What did Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf do when he heard the news of Badr?
Answer 627. Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf got terribly exasp erated and swore that he would prefer death to life if the news was true. He then rode to Makkah to trigger the fire of war and kindle rancour against the Muslims in Madinah.

Question 628. What kind of propaganda did Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf start in Madinah?
Answer 628. Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf started a campaign of slanderous propaganda in Madinah that took the form of obscene songs and amatory sonnets with a view to defaming the Muslim women.


Page 152

Answer 628. The Prophet asked his men to kill Ka‘b bin Al -Ashraf.

Answer 628. Muhammad bin Maslamah talked to Ka‘b to try and get him to lend them money and provide security for the debt.

Answer 628. Ka‘b’s foster brother was Salkan b in Salamah.

Answer 628. Abu Na’ilah extended his hand towards Ka‘b's head to smell him, and when he held him, the others could do their job.

Answer 628. When the group of men returned after killing Ka‘b, The Prophet healed a wound on Al-Harith bin Aws with his saliva, and the Jews were scared and in the grip of inexpressible panic.


Page 153

Question 629. What did the Prophet do when good words and admonition failed?
Answer 629. They remained silent and resigned, and faked adherence to covenants. Now the Prophet was free to collect his thoughts and give himself up to resolving foreign affairs, and facing dangers that could be carried with hostile wind blowing again from Makkah.

Question 630. What was the most successful campaign prior to Uhud Battle?
Answer 630. Zaid bin Harithah leads a Campaign on the Trade Routes of Quraish.

Question 631. How much did the booty from the Trade Routes of Quraish campaign amount to?
Answer 631. The booty was distributed among the Muslim warriors after one -fifth had been set aside for the Prophet, and it was worth 100 thousand dirhams.

Question 632. What were the two avenues Quraish faced to react to the economic crisis?
Answer 632. Quraish faced two avenues to react to the economic crisis: relinquishing all symbols of arrogance and all attitudes of haughtiness through reconciliation with the new status quo, and peaceableness with the Muslims; or launching a decisive overwhelming war with the aim of crushing down the military forces of Madinah.

Question 633. What happened to Furat bin Haiyan during the Trade Routes of Quraish campaign?
Answer 633. Furat bin Haiyan embraced Islam out of his own sweet free will during the Trade Routes of Quraish campaign.


Page 154

Question 634. What movements constituted the direct preliminaries to the battle of Uhud?
Answer 634. Demanding immediate vengeance and quick retaliatory action on all levels.

Question 635. How did the battle of Uhud come about?
Answer 635. Through movements demanding immediate vengeance and quick retaliatory action on all levels.

Question 636. What kind of actions preceded the battle of Uhud?
Answer 636. Quick retaliatory actions demanding immediate vengeance on all levels.

Question 637. What is the significance of the battle of Uhud?
Answer 637. It was a result of movements demanding immediate vengeance and quick retaliatory action on all levels.

Question 638. What prompted the battle of Uhud?
Answer 638. Demands for immediate vengeance and quick retaliatory action on all levels.


Page 155

Question 639. What were the Makkans determined to do with the commonwealth of Islam?
Answer 639. The Makkans were determined to crush the commonwealth of Islam once and for all.

Question 640. How did the Quraish manage to enlist support for the upcoming battle?
Answer 640. The Quraish managed to enlist the support of two well-known tribes Kinana and Tihamah, as well as some desert bedouins Ahabish by sending out emissaries and hiring poets to entice the tribes.

Question 641. Who was the general leader of the Makkan contingent?
Answer 641. The general leader of the Makkan contingent was Abu Sufyan bin Harb.

Question 642. What was the size of the Makkan contingent?
Answer 642. The Makkan contingent was comprised of three thousand pitched warriors, of whom seven hundred were mailed soldiers and two hundred well-mounted cavalry with three thousand camels and fifteen women.

Question 643. What did the Makkans bring along with them to the battle?
Answer 643. The Makkans brought along their women with them to the battle in order to arouse them to fight manfully.


Page 156

Question 644. Who sent an urgent message to the Prophet regarding military movements and preparations?
Answer 644. Al-‘Abbas bin ‘Abdul Muttalib sent an urgent message to the Prophet.

Question 645. What suggestion did Hind bint ‘Utbah make when the Makkan army reached Al-Abwâ’?
Answer 645. Hind bint ‘Utbah suggested that the Makkan army should dig up the grave of the Prophet’s mother.

Question 646. Who headed up the consultation assembly to exchange views regarding the Makkan army’s movements?
Answer 646. The Messenger of Allah headed up the consultation assembly to exchange views regarding the Makkan army’s movements.

Question 647. What interpretation did the Prophet give for his dream of cows slaughtered and a groove at the top of his sword?
Answer 647. The interpretation of the Prophet’s dream was that some of his men were killed, and the groove at the top of his sword meant that a member of his House would be hurt.

Question 648. Who was the head of the hypocrites who attended the consultation assembly?
Answer 648. Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul was the head of the hypocrites who attended the consultation assembly.


Page 157

Question 649. Who suggested that the Prophet go out of Madinah?
Answer 649. Some of the best honourable Companions who had missed Al-Jihâd in Badr invasion suggested that the Prophet should go out of Madinah.

Question 650. Who said, "By Allâh, Who has sent the Book down unto you, I will not taste food till I fight them with my sword outside Madinah"?
Answer 650. Hamza bin Abdul Muttalib, the paternal uncle of the Prophet, said, "By Allâh, Who has sent the Book down unto you, I will not taste food till I fight them with my sword outside Madinah."

Question 651. How many battalions were in the Islamic Army?
Answer 651. The Islamic Army was divided into three battalions: Al-Muhajireen battalion, Al-Ansari-Aws battalion, and Al-Ansari-Khazraj battalion.

Question 652. Who was appointed to lead the people in prayer in Madinah?
Answer 652. Ibn Umm Maktum was appointed to lead the people in prayer in Madinah.

Question 653. Who were the two people who ran in front of the army?
Answer 653. The two people who ran in front of the army were the two Sa‘ds, who were armoured.


Page 158

Question 654. Who were the well armed battalion that the Prophet encountered?
Answer 654. The Prophet encountered a well-armed battalion of Jews who were allies of Al-Khazraj.

Question 655. How many people were chosen to guard the camp?
Answer 655. Fifty people were chosen to guard the camp.

Question 656. Who was in charge of guarding the Prophet?
Answer 656. Dhakwan bin ‘Abd Qais was in charge of guarding the Prophet.

Question 657. What caused the rebellion of 'Abdullah bin Ubai and his followers?
Answer 657. The rebellion of 'Abdullah bin Ubai and his followers was caused by their disagreement with the Prophet's opinion and their belief that they should not fight against the idolaters.

Question 658. What did the Prophet do when he reached Ash-Shaikhan?
Answer 658. When the Prophet reached Ash-Shaikhan, he paraded his army and dismissed those who were too young or disabled to fight.


Page 159

Question 659. Who attempted to break the high morale of the believers?
Answer 659. The hypocrite attempted to break the high morale of the believers.

Question 660. Who followed the hypocrites and reproached them to go back?
Answer 660. 'Abdullah bin Haram followed the hypocrites and reproached them to go back.

Question 661. What did the Messenger of Allah say to his men on the way to Uhud?
Answer 661. The Messenger of Allah asked his men "Which man of you can lead us to where the people (i.e. the idolaters) are, along a short track that does not pass by them?"

Question 662. Who was Marba'?
Answer 662. Marba' bin Qaizi was a blind hypocrite.

Question 663. What did the Prophet say when they rushed to kill Marba'?
Answer 663. The Prophet said "Do not kill Marba'".


Page 160

Question 664. What was the mission of the fifty archers appointed by the Prophet?
Answer 664. The mission of the fifty archers was to drive off the horses from the Muslims by means of arrows and to defend their backs.

Question 665. What was the name of the mountain where the archers were stationed?
Answer 665. The mountain where the archers were stationed was called the Mountain of Archers.

Question 666. Who was appointed to the right wing of the Prophet's army?
Answer 666. Al-Mundhir bin 'Amr was appointed to the right wing of the Prophet's army.

Question 667. Who was appointed to the left wing of the Prophet's army?
Answer 667. Az-Zubair bin Al-'Awwam was appointed to the left wing of the Prophet's army.

Question 668. What did the Prophet tell the archers?
Answer 668. The Prophet told the archers to stand steadily in their positions and to not leave them until they were sent for. He also told them to not come to assist if they saw the Muslims being slain, and to not share if they saw the Muslims gaining ground.


Page 161

Question 669. Who was appointed as the overall leader of the Makkan army?
Answer 669. Abu Sufyan Sakhr bin Harb was appointed as the overall leader of the Makkan army.

Question 670. What did the Prophet use to inspire and motivate his companions to fight?
Answer 670. The Prophet used a sharp sword to inspire and motivate his companions to fight.

Question 671. What is the spiritual significance of the sword in this narrative?
Answer 671. The spiritual significance of the sword in this narrative is that it symbolizes courage and bravery.

Question 672. Who did the Prophet give the sword to?
Answer 672. The Prophet gave the sword to Abu Dujana Sammak bin Kharsha.

Question 673. What did the Messenger of Allâh forbid the Muslims to do?
Answer 673. The Messenger of Allâh forbid the Muslims to start the fight without having an order from him.


Page 162

Question 674. Who inherited the assignment of posts of the army?
Answer 674. Qusai bin Kilab inherited the assignment of posts of the army.

Question 675. What did Abu Sufyan remind his men of?
Answer 675. Abu Sufyan reminded his men of what had happened to Quraish on Badr Day (i.e. battle) when their standard bearer, An - Nadr bin Al -Harith, was captured.

Question 676. What was Abu Sufyan's attempt?
Answer 676. Abu Sufyan's attempt was to sow the seeds of discord and dispute among the Muslims by asking the Helpers to stand aside and not interfere.

Question 677. What did Abu ‘Amir Al-Fasiq do?
Answer 677. Abu ‘Amir Al-Fasiq left Madinah for the Quraishites in Makkah to rally them against the Messenger of Allâh and to urge them to start the fight against him.

Question 678. How did the people of Aws respond to Abu 'Amir Al-Fasiq?
Answer 678. The people of Aws responded to Abu 'Amir Al-Fasiq by saying "No eyes of anybody shall be consoled by viewing you, O Fâsiq."


Page 163

Question 679. What did the Quraishites attempt to do?
Answer 679. The Quraishites attempted to sow discord among people of Faith.

Question 680. Who was the wife of Abu Sufyan?
Answer 680. The wife of Abu Sufyan was Hind bint ‘Utbah.

Question 681. What did the Quraishite women do in the battle?
Answer 681. The Quraishite women wandered among the rows of the idolaters, tapped on tambourines, encouraged men to fight, and inflamed the emotions of heroes, lancers, swordsmen and brave fighters.

Question 682. Who was the first combatant in the battle?
Answer 682. The first combatant was Talha bin Abi Talha Al -‘Abdari.

Question 683. What did the Messenger of Allâh exclaim when he saw a wonderful incident?
Answer 683. The Messenger of Allâh exclaimed "Allâhu Akbar" which means "Allâh is the Greatest" when he saw a wonderful incident.


Page 164

Question 684. Who was the first to lift the standard?
Answer 684. Abu Sa‘d bin Abi Talha was the first to lift the standard.

Question 685. Who killed Abu Dujana?
Answer 685. Abu Dujana was killed by the idolaters.

Question 686. Who was the last to carry the standard before it fell to the ground?
Answer 686. Sawab, a slave of Bani ‘Abd Ad-Dar, was the last to carry the standard before it fell to the ground.

Question 687. Who was the first to demand the sword of the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 687. Az-Zubair bin Al-‘Awwam was the first to demand the sword of the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 688. What was Abu Dujana's motto?
Answer 688. Abu Dujana's motto was "I seek death, I seek death."


Page 165

Question 689. Who was Abu Dujana?
Answer 689. Abu Dujana was a Muslim warrior who stood out among the idolaters and fought against the overwhelming odds.

Question 690. What did Abu Dujana do when he encountered a woman as he fought?
Answer 690. Abu Dujana spared the woman, saying "I respect the Prophet 's sword too much to use it on a woman."

Question 691. Who was Hamzah bin ‘Abdul Muttalib?
Answer 691. Hamzah bin ‘Abdul Muttalib was a hero who displayed wonderful feats of gallantry against the overwhelming odds.

Question 692. How was Hamzah killed?
Answer 692. Hamzah was assassinated in the dead-dark, which was the custom of killing generous and noble men that were impossible to kill in an honourable fight.

Question 693. Who was Wahshi bin Harb?
Answer 693. Wahshi bin Harb was a slave who was promised manumission if he killed Hamzah.


Page 166

Question 694. Who shouted "Come on! O son of the ‘clitoris - cutter” when Hamzah observed him?
Answer 694. Wahshi shouted "Come on! O son of the ‘clitoris - cutter” when Hamzah observed him.

Question 695. How did Wahshi kill Hamzah?
Answer 695. Wahshi killed Hamzah by balancing his spear and shaking it until he was content with it, then spearing him and it went down into his stomach and issued out between his legs.

Question 696. According to the text, who had the upper hand at the battle?
Answer 696. The archers squad had the upper hand at the battle.

Question 697. Who led the Makkan horsemen?
Answer 697. Khalid bin Al -Waleed led the Makkan horsemen.

Question 698. How did the battle end?
Answer 698. The battle ended with the idolaters staggering and retreating, leaving all motives of alleged pride, and affected dignity in oblivion, and their standard trodden by the feet of the fighters with none ever courageous enough to approach it.


Page 167

Question 699. What did Allāh do to help the Muslims?
Answer 699. Allāh sent down His Help unto the Muslims and verified His Promise to them.

Question 700. Who warned the archers about the fatal mistake they were about to commit?
Answer 700. Their leader 'Abdullah bin Jubair warned the archers about the fatal mistake they were about to commit.

Question 701. How many archers deserted their posts despite the warnings?
Answer 701. Forty archers deserted their posts despite the warnings.

Question 702. What did the Prophet have to choose between when he was surrounded by Khalid bin Al -Waleed?
Answer 702. The Prophet had to choose between fleeing for his life and abandoning his army to its doomed end, or to take action at the risk of his life and rally the ranks of the Muslims again.

Question 703. How did the idolaters surprise the Muslims?
Answer 703. The idolaters surprised the Muslims by turning swiftly round to the rear of the Muslim army and encompassing them.


Page 168

Question 704. Who called out to the Muslim group during the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 704. The Messenger of Allah called out to the Muslim group during the Battle of Uhud.

Question 705. What two categories of people were revealed during the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 705. The two categories of people revealed during the Battle of Uhud were those who were only interested in themselves and fled, and those who returned to the battle and mixed with the idolaters.

Question 706. What did Hudhaifah do when he saw his father about to be killed by other Muslims?
Answer 706. When Hudhaifah saw his father about to be killed by other Muslims he said "O servants of Allah! Beware! This is my father."

Question 707. What did Anas bin An-Nadr say when he encountered the people who were shuddering of fear and panic?
Answer 707. Anas bin An-Nadr said "What do you live for after Muhammad? Come on and die for what the Messenger of Allah has died for."

Question 708. How did Anas bin An-Nadr die during the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 708. Anas bin An-Nadr died during the Battle of Uhud after being cut and stabbed by over eighty swords, arrows, or spears. His sister was able to recognize his dead body by the tip of his finger.


Page 169

Question 709. Who said "O kinfolk of Helpers, if Muhammad were killed, Allâh is Everlasting and He never dies. Fight in defence of your Faith. Allâh will help you and so you will be victorious"?
Answer 709. Thabit bin Ad-Dahdah called out to his people with this message.

Question 710. Who were the companions who stayed with Muhammad until the end?
Answer 710. Abu Bakr, ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab, ‘Ali bin Abi Talib and others were at the head of the companions who stayed with Muhammad until the end.

Question 711. Who offered his life in defense of the Prophet?
Answer 711. One of the Helpers stepped forward and fought the idolaters in defense of the Prophet till he was killed.

Question 712. What did the Messenger of Allah say to encourage his companions?
Answer 712. The Messenger of Allah said, "He who pushes back those idolaters, will be housed in Paradise." or "He will be my Companion in Paradise."

Question 713. What happened to ‘Amara bin Yazeed bin As-Sakan?
Answer 713. ‘Amara bin Yazeed bin As-Sakan kept on fighting till his wounds neutralized him and he fell dead.


Page 170

Question 714. Who attacked the Prophet during the Most Awkward Hour in the Messenger's Life?
Answer 714. The idolaters attacked the Prophet during the Most Awkward Hour in the Messenger's Life.

Question 715. How many Quraishites were with the Prophet during this time?
Answer 715. Two Quraishites were with the Prophet during this time; Talha bin ‘Ubaidullâh and Sa‘d bin Ab i Waqqas.

Question 716. What did ‘Abdullah bin Qami’a do to the Prophet?
Answer 716. ‘Abdullah bin Qami’a struck the Prophet violently on his shoulder with his sword and dealt a heavy blow on his cheek.

Question 717. What did the Prophet say when he was attacked?
Answer 717. The Prophet said, "I implore Allâh to humiliate you." and "My Lord, forgive my people for they have no knowledge."

Question 718. What stopped the idolaters from killing the Prophet?
Answer 718. Sa‘d bin Abi Waqqas and Talha bin ‘Ubaidullâh, two Quraishites, stopped the idolaters from killing the Prophet with their courage and willingness to fight.


Page 171

Question 719. Who was the first to help the Messenger of Allâh when the idolaters surrounded him?
Answer 719. The first one to help was Abu Bakr As-Siddiq.

Question 720. How many Helpers were killed in the battle of Uhud?
Answer 720. Six Helpers were killed in the battle of Uhud.

Question 721. What did the Prophet say about Talha bin ‘Ubaidullâh when his hand was injured?
Answer 721. The Prophet said: “If you had said: In the Name of Allâh, the angels would have raised you up before the people’s very eyes.”

Question 722. Who were the two men dressed in white that the Messenger of Allâh was found with in the battle of Uhud?
Answer 722. The two men dressed in white that the Messenger of Allâh was found with in the battle of Uhud were believed to be Gabriel and Michael.

Question 723. What did Abu Bakr say when Uhud Day was mentioned?
Answer 723. When Uhud Day was mentioned, Abu Bakr used to say: ‘That was Talha’s day (i.e. battle)’ and he recited a verse of poetry about him.


Page 172

Question 724. Who was the first person to go back to the Prophet on Uhud Day?
Answer 724. Abu Bakr was the first person to go back to the Prophet on Uhud Day.

Question 725. What did Abu Bakr wish when he saw a man fighting to shield the Prophet?
Answer 725. Abu Bakr wished that the man fighting to shield the Prophet was Talha and offered to sacrifice his parents for him.

Question 726. How did Abu Talha shield the Prophet from the enemy arrows?
Answer 726. Abu Talha shielded the Prophet from the enemy arrows by using his chest to protect him.

Question 727. What did the Prophet say about Abu Talha breaking his bows?
Answer 727. The Prophet said, " O Allâh! Let this (Abu Talha) break his bows in Thy cause forever."

Question 728. Who was Abdullah bin Shihab Az-Zuhri?
Answer 728. Abdullah bin Shihab Az-Zuhri was a co-polytheist of Safwan who swore that he did not see the Prophet and that he might be immune to their attempts on his life.


Page 173

Question 729. What did Abu Talhah say to protect the Messenger of Allah?
Answer 729. Abu Talhah said, "I sacrifice my father and mother for your safety. Do not go too close lest an arrow of theirs should hit you. I would rather die than see you hurt."

Question 730. Who followed 'Utbah bin Abi Waqqas and struck him with the sword?
Answer 730. Hatib bin Balta'a followed 'Utbah bin Abi Waqqas and struck him with the sword.

Question 731. Who was the hero archer playing a prominent part in Uhud hostilities?
Answer 731. Sahl bin Haneef was the hero archer playing a prominent part in Uhud hostilities.

Question 732. Who sucked the blood out of the Prophet's cheek till he cleaned it?
Answer 732. Malik bin Sinan, the father of Abi Sa'eed Al-Khudri, sucked the blood out of the Prophet's cheek till he cleaned it.

Question 733. Who was mistaken for the Messenger of Allah due to their resemblance in appearance?
Answer 733. Mus'ab bin 'Umair was mistaken for the Messenger of Allah due to their resemblance in appearance.


Page 174

Question 734. Who was the first person to recognize the approaching Prophet?
Answer 734. Ka'b bin Malik was the first person to recognize the approaching Prophet.

Question 735. What did the Messenger of Allah sign to Ka'b bin Malik when he shouted?
Answer 735. The Messenger of Allah signed to Ka'b bin Malik to stop shouting so his position would not be located by the idolaters.

Question 736. Who went lame after being attacked by a horsemen of the enemy?
Answer 736. 'Uthman bin 'Abdullah bin Al-Mugheerah went lame after being attacked by a horsemen of the enemy.

Question 737. Who was Abu Talhah and what did he say?
Answer 737. Abu Talhah was a Muslim fighter who said that he was overwhelmed by a desire to sleep on Uhud Day and his sword fell off his hand several times.

Question 738. How did the Messenger of Allah kill 'Uthman bin 'Abdullah bin Al-Mugheerah?
Answer 738. The Messenger of Allah took a spear from Al-Harith bin As-Simma and speared him in the neck.


Page 175

Question 739. What happened to the enemy of Allah during the withdrawal of the Prophet?
Answer 739. The enemy of Allah eventually breathed his last at a place called Sarif.

Question 740. What did the Prophet do when a big rock blocked his way?
Answer 740. The Prophet tried to mount it, but having worn a short heavy armor, and being seriously wounded he could not ascend it. Talha then sat in a position that enabled the Prophet to stand on his back and lifted him up.

Question 741. What did the Prophet say to Sa'd while they were on the way to the hillock?
Answer 741. The Prophet said to Sa'd, "Drive them off."

Question 742. What did Hind bin 'Utbah do to Hamzah?
Answer 742. Hind bin 'Utbah ripped open the liver of Hamzah and chewed it.

Question 743. What did the women and men do to the martyrs?
Answer 743. The women and men cut off the ears, the noses, and the genitals of the martyrs, and they even cut open their bellies.


Page 176

Question 744. Who was Abu Dujana?
Answer 744. Abu Dujana was an armed Muslim who was engaged in single combat with a disbeliever.

Question 745. What did Umm Aiman do at the battlefield?
Answer 745. Umm Aiman carried water bags to the Muslim fighters and threw dust at the defeated fighters entering Madinah.

Question 746. Who washed the wound of the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 746. His daughter Fatimah washed the wound of the Prophet Muhammad.

Question 747. How did the Muslims pray on Uhud Day?
Answer 747. The Muslims prayed led by the Messenger of Allah in a sitting posture due to the wounds and their bad effects on his body.

Question 748. What did Muhammad bin Maslamah bring to the Prophet?
Answer 748. Muhammad bin Maslamah brought the Prophet fresh water to drink.


Page 177

Question 749. Who did Abu Sufyan call out for when he was on the mountain?
Answer 749. Abu Sufyan called out for Muhammad, Ibn Abi Quhafah, and ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab.

Question 750. What did Abu Sufyan say when ‘Umar answered him?
Answer 750. Abu Sufyan said, "Well deeds! Today is a vengeance for Badr Day. This for that. War is attended with alternate success."

Question 751. Who did the Prophet send out to trace the Quraishites after they left?
Answer 751. The Prophet sent out ‘Ali bin Abi Talib to trace the Quraishites after they left.

Question 752. What did the Prophet tell Zaid bin Thabit to do when he sent him out?
Answer 752. The Prophet told Zaid bin Thabit to seek out Sa‘d bin Ar-Rabî‘ and say to him “peace be upon you from me” and to ask him how he was feeling.

Question 753. What did Sa‘d bin Ar-Rabî‘ recommend Zaid should do before he died?
Answer 753. Sa‘d bin Ar-Rabî‘ recommended that Zaid should treat the captives well.


Page 178

Question 754. Who is the Jew of Bani Tha‘labah that fought under the banner of Islam?
Answer 754. The Jew of Bani Tha‘labah that fought under the banner of Islam was Mukhaireeq.

Question 755. What did the Messenger of Allah say about Qazman when he committed suicide?
Answer 755. The Messenger of Allah said that Qazman was an inhabitant of Fire.

Question 756. How did the Messenger of Allah bury the martyrs?
Answer 756. The Messenger of Allah supervised the martyrs’ burial and would bury every two or three martyrs together in one grave and even join two men in one garment while saying: "Who is the more learned of the Qur’ân?"

Question 757. How did the Messenger of Allah describe the liquid that would come out of the wounds of the martyrs on Day of Resurrection?
Answer 757. The Messenger of Allah said that the liquid that would come out of the wounds of the martyrs on Day of Resurrection would be a blood-like in color but musk-like in scent.

Question 758. What were the words of Amr bin Thabit, whom the Muslims had urged to embrace Islam but refused?
Answer 758. Amr bin Thabit said, "It is (certainly) an inclination to Islam. I believe in Allâh and in His Messenger. I have fought with the Messenger of Allâh till I have got what you see," and then he immediately died.


Page 179

Question 759. Who was Hanzalah?
Answer 759. Hanzalah was a companion of the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH).

Question 760. What did the angels do when they found Hanzalah's coffin?
Answer 760. The angels were washing him.

Question 761. What was the reaction of the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) to the sight of Hamzah's mutilation?
Answer 761. The Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) was extremely grieved.

Question 762. What did the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) ask his aunt Safiyah to do?
Answer 762. The Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) asked his aunt Safiyah to dismiss her so that she wouldn't see what happened to her brother.

Question 763. What did the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) say when the Muslims formed ranks at Uhud Day?
Answer 763. The Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) said: "Istawoo (i.e. form rows as for prayer) so that I offer thanks and praise to my Lord, the Great and the All -Mighty."


Page 180

Question 764. Who is Hamnah bint Jahsh?
Answer 764. Hamnah bint Jahsh is the sister of 'Abdullah bin Jahsh and the maternal uncle of Hamzah bin 'Abdul Muttalib.

Question 765. What did the Messenger of Allah say when Hamnah bint Jahsh found out about the death of her husband?
Answer 765. When the Messenger of Allah announced the death of Hamnah bint Jahsh's husband Mus'ab bin 'Umair to her, he said: "The woman's husband is extremely dear to her."

Question 766. Who was Umm Sa'd bin Mu'adh?
Answer 766. Umm Sa'd bin Mu'adh was a woman of Banu Dinar whose husband, father, and brother were all killed at the Battle of Uhud.

Question 767. What did the Messenger of Allah say when Umm Sa'd bin Mu'adh met him?
Answer 767. When Umm Sa'd bin Mu'adh met the Messenger of Allah, he said: "She is welcome," and he stopped and waited for her. Then he consoled her for her killed son ‘Amr bin Mu‘adh, and supplicated to Allah for the relatives of those who were killed at Uhud.

Question 768. What did the Messenger of Allah say when he arrived at his house in Madinah?
Answer 768. When the Messenger of Allah arrived at his house in Madinah, he handed his sword to his daughter Fatimah and said: "O daughter, wash the blood off this sword. By Allâh it has been helpful to me today." ‘Ali bin Abi Talib then handed her his sword and said: "And wash the blood of this sword too. By Allâh, it has been helpful to me today."


Page 181

Question 769. What was the death toll for the Muslims in the battle of Uhud?
Answer 769. Seventy Muslims were killed; sixty-five of them were Helpers, forty-one from Khazraj and twenty-four from Aws, one Jew, and four Emigrants; and twenty-two polytheists were killed, though some versions speak of thirty-seven.

Question 770. What did Jabi r bin ‘Abdullah ask the Prophet when the Muslims marched out?
Answer 770. Jabir bin ‘Abdullah implored the Prophet to allow him join them in that fresh invasion on account that he always had a liking to witness all the battles that the Prophet was involved in.

Question 771. What place did the Muslims encamp when they marched out to meet the enemy of Islam?
Answer 771. The Muslims marched out until they reached a place called Hamra’ Al-Asad, about eight miles from Madinah. They encamped there.

Question 772. Who was Ma‘bad bin Abi Ma‘bad and what did he do?
Answer 772. Ma‘bad bin Abi Ma‘bad came to the Messenger of Allâh and professed Islam. He suggested that he overtake Abu Sufyan and discourage him from pursuing his evil intentions.

Question 773. What did Abu Sufyan plan to do when he reached Ar-Rawhâ’?
Answer 773. Abu Sufyan started thinking in his mind and pondered: "If we march out again, we will do something that the Arabs will talk much about." He had a different plan in his mind.


Page 182

Question 774. hat was the hasty decision taken by the polytheists?
Answer 774. he hasty decision taken by the polytheists was to go back and annihilate and crush down the Muslims and their power.

Question 775. ho tried to dissuade the polytheists from their venture?
Answer 775. afwan bin Omaiyah tried to dissuade the polytheists from their venture.

Question 776. hat did Ma‘bad bin Abu Ma‘bad say to dissuade the polytheists from their venture?
Answer 776. a‘bad bin Abu Ma‘bad said that Muhammad had mustered all the troops who had tarried and did not share in Uhud, and that their hearts were filled with hate and resentment.

Question 777. hat message did the people of the caravan communicate to the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 777. he people of the caravan communicated the message to the Messenger of Allâh that the Makkans had rallied their ranks to annihilate the Messenger and his Companions, in return Abu Sufyan promised to give the people of the caravan loads of raisins at the forum of ‘Ukaz the following year.

Question 778. here did the Messenger of Allâh stay after the arrival of the caravan?
Answer 778. he Messenger of Allâh stayed at Hamrâ’ Al-Asad for three days — Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday — 9-11 Safar, 3 A.H.


Page 183

Question 779. Who captured Abu 'Azza Al-Jumahi before the Prophet returned to Madinah?
Answer 779. The Prophet captured Abu 'Azza Al-Jumahi before he returned to Madinah.

Question 780. Who was Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah?
Answer 780. Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah was a Makkan spy.

Question 781. What was the condition that 'Uthman bin 'Affan gave Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah?
Answer 781. The condition that 'Uthman bin 'Affan gave Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah was that he would be killed if he was caught in Madinah for more than three days.

Question 782. Who were sent to pursue and kill Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah?
Answer 782. Zaid bin Harithah and 'Ammar bin Yasir were sent to pursue and kill Mu'awiyah bin Al-Mugheerah.

Question 783. Was the battle of Uhud a victory for the polytheists?
Answer 783. No, the battle of Uhud was not a victory for the polytheists as they failed to achieve their ultimate goals and sustain casualties and losses.


Page 184

Question 784. What is the story of Hamrâ’ Al-Asad?
Answer 784. It is a story of a victorious army in retreat for fear of disgrace and defeat, and the crestfallen and crippled group of Muslims in pursuit.

Question 785. What was the outcome of the battle of Uhud?
Answer 785. The battle resulted in neither a victory nor defeat for either side, but rather in a cessation of further engagement without cowardly escape or resigned surrender.

Question 786. What did the Noble Quran say about the attitudes of those involved in the battle?
Answer 786. The Noble Quran identified both sides as suffering from losses and hardships and stated that each had a hope from Allah for a reward.

Question 787. What did the Noble Quran say about the hypocrites and Jews?
Answer 787. The Noble Quran spoke of the hostility and hatred harbored by the hypocrites and Jews towards Allah and His Messenger and managed to erase any ambiguities or insinuations in the hearts of some weak-of-heart Muslims.

Question 788. How many verses were revealed about the battle?
Answer 788. Sixty verses of the Noble Quran were revealed about the battle of Uhud.


Page 185

Question 789. What resulted from the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 789. The reverse in Uhud resulted from the neglect on the part of the archers of the explicit command of the Prophet.

Question 790. What did the Muslim scholars say about the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 790. The Muslim scholars said the success of the Muslims depends upon their obedience to the Prophet.

Question 791. What is said about the purpose of trials and tests provided by Allâh?
Answer 791. Trials and tests are provided by Allâh in order that the true believers could deservedly occupy their abode in the blessed Hereafter.

Question 792. What is granted by Allâh as a passport leading to Paradise?
Answer 792. Martyrdom is granted by Allâh as a passport leading to Paradise.

Question 793. What is the fate of disbelievers and enemies of Allâh?
Answer 793. The fate of disbelievers and enemies of Allâh is destruction and annihilation in recompense for their disbelief, tyranny, and transgression.


Page 186

Question 794. Who declared their enmity to the Muslims between the Battle of Uhud and the Battle of the Confederates?
Answer 794. The Jews, hypocrites and bedouins declared their enmity to the Muslims.

Question 795. What was the first initiative Muhammad took to redeem the Muslims after the Battle of Uhud?
Answer 795. The first initiative Muhammad took to redeem the Muslims was the Hamra' Al-Asad pursuit operation.

Question 796. Who led the Abi Salamah Mission?
Answer 796. Abu Salamah led the Abi Salamah Mission.

Question 797. What was the purpose of the expedition sent by Muhammad in Muharram 1st, 4 A.H.?
Answer 797. The purpose of the expedition sent by Muhammad in Muharram 1st, 4 A.H. was to take Bani Asad bin Khuzaimah by surprise in their own homeland and capture their cattle.

Question 798. Who led the errand set out to destroy the enemies in Muharram 5th, 4 A.H.?
Answer 798. 'Abdullah bin Unais led the errand set out to destroy the enemies in Muharram 5th, 4 A.H.


Page 187

Question 799. Who led the delegation of Muslims sent by the Prophet (pbuh) to instruct the tribes of 'Udal and Qarah?
Answer 799. 'Asim bin Thabit, the grandfather of ‘Asim bin ‘Umar bin Al -Khattab, led the delegation of Muslims sent by the Prophet (pbuh).


Page 188

Question 800. Who killed Khubaib?
Answer 800. Quraish ordered ‘Uqbah bin Al -Harith to crucify him.

Question 801. Who tricked Khubaib's corpse?
Answer 801. ‘Amr  bin Omaiyah Ad -Damari played a cunning trick and carried the corpse stealthily at night to bury it somewhere.

Question 802. Who killed Zaid bin Ad -Dathna?
Answer 802. Safwan bin Omaiyah purchased the second man, Zaid bin Ad -Dathna, and killed him as an act of vengeance for his father’s murder.

Question 803. Who was sent to Najd to call them to Islam?
Answer 803. Ibn Ishaq confirms that forty men were sent to them;  but As-Sahih states that they were seventy—Al-Mundhir bin ‘Amr commanded that group.

Question 804. Who killed Haram bin Milhan?
Answer 804. 'Amir bin At -Tufail ordered a man to spear Haram in the back.


Page 189

Question 805. Who was the only surviving Muslim from the battle of Al-Khandaq?
Answer 805. The only surviving Muslim from the battle of Al-Khandaq was Ka‘b bin Zaid bin An-Najjar.

Question 806. What happened to 'Amr bin Omaiyah at the battle of Al-Khandaq?
Answer 806. 'Amr bin Omaiyah was captured at the battle of Al-Khandaq, but was freed when his captor realized he was from the Mudar tribe.

Question 807. What did 'Amr bin Omaiyah do when he found two men of Bani Kilab sleeping?
Answer 807. 'Amr bin Omaiyah killed them thinking he was avenging his companions, not knowing they had a pledge of protection from the Prophet.

Question 808. Why did the Prophet supplicate Allâh’s wrath against certain tribes for 30 days?
Answer 808. The Prophet supplicated Allâh’s wrath against certain tribes for 30 days because of the tragedies of Uhud, Ar-Raji‘, and Ma‘una Well, where many of his Companions were killed.

Question 809. What provocations lead to the invasion of Bani An-Nadeer?
Answer 809. The invasion of Bani An-Nadeer was triggered by 'Amr bin Omaiyah killing two men of Bani Kilab who had a pledge of protection from the Prophet, for which he was given a blood-money debt to discharge.


Page 190

Question 810. . Who did 'Amr bin Omaiyah Ad-Damari kill by mistake?
Answer 810. . 'Amr bin Omaiyah Ad-Damari killed two men by mistake.

Question 811. . Who offered to help Bani Nadeer in their conflict with the Muslims?
Answer 811. . The chief of the hypocrites, ‘Abdullah bin Ubai, offered to help Bani Nadeer in their conflict with the Muslims.

Question 812. . Who revealed to the Prophet that the Jews had a wicked criminal intention?
Answer 812. . Gabriel revealed to the Prophet that the Jews had a wicked criminal intention.

Question 813. . What did the Prophet do after hearing of the Jewish plot?
Answer 813. . After hearing of the Jewish plot, the Prophet with his Companions hurried off back to Madinah.

Question 814. . What did the Jews of Bani Nadeer say when they were asked to evacuate Madinah?
Answer 814. . The Jews of Bani Nadeer sent a message to the Prophet saying, "We will not leave our houses. Do whatever you like to do."


Page 191

Question 815. What did the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) do when he received the reply from Huyai bin Akhtab?
Answer 815. When the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) received the reply from Huyai bin Akhtab, he said "Allâhu Akbar, A llâhu Akbar" and his Companions repeated after him, then he set out to fight them and appointed Ibn Umm Maktum to dispose the affairs of Madinah during his absence.

Question 816. Who was entrusted with the standard of the Muslims?
Answer 816. 'Ali bin Abi Talib was entrusted with the standard of the Muslims.

Question 817. What did Allâh say in the Qur’ân about the palm trees of the enemy?
Answer 817. Allâh said in the Qur’ân: "What you (O Muslims) cut down of the palm -trees (of the enemy), or you left them standing on their stems, it was by leav e of Allâh."

Question 818. What did the Messenger of Allah gain during the invasion of Banu Nadeer?
Answer 818. The Messenger of Allah gained weapons, land, houses, and wealth during the invasion of Banu Nadeer, including 50 armours, 50 helmets, and 340 swor ds.

Question 819. In which chapter of the Quran does Allâh praise the Emigrants and Helpers?
Answer 819. Allâh praised the Emigrants and Helpers in Chapter 59 - The Gathering - of the Quran, Sûrah Al -Hashr.


Page 192

Question 820. What geographical area was the Dhat Ar-Riqa' campaign in?
Answer 820. The Dhat Ar-Riqa' campaign was in Najd, a large area of tableland in the Arabian Peninsula.

Question 821. What was the purpose of the Dhat Ar-Riqa' campaign?
Answer 821. The purpose of the Dhat Ar-Riqa' campaign was to quell the rebellious bedouins in order to meet the exigencies of the agreed upon encounter with the polytheists in the Minor Badr Battle in Sha‘ban, 4 A.H.

Question 822. What year did the Invasion of Badr, the Second, take place?
Answer 822. The Invasion of Badr, the Second, took place in Sha‘ban 4 A.H., January 626 A.D.

Question 823. Who was the standard bearer for the Invasion of Badr, the Second?
Answer 823. 'Ali bin Abi Talib was the standard bearer for the Invasion of Badr, the Second.

Question 824. What chapter of the Quran is the text referring to?
Answer 824. The text is referring to Surah Al-Hashr, the 59th chapter of the Quran.


Page 193

Question 825. What is the name of the war fought at Badr?
Answer 825. The war at Badr is commonly referred to as ‘Badr the Appointment’, ‘Badr, the Second’, ‘Badr, the Latter’, and ‘Badr Minor’.

Question 826. How many people comprised Abu Sufyan's forces?
Answer 826. Abu Sufyan's forces comprised two thousand footmen and fifty horsemen.

Question 827. Where did the Muslims stay waiting for the idolaters to come?
Answer 827. The Muslims stayed at Badr waiting for the idolaters to come.

Question 828. What is the name of the person the Prophet appointed to take authority over Madinah during the Prophet's absence?
Answer 828. The person the Prophet appointed to take authority over Madinah while he was absent was Sib'a bin 'Arfatah Al-Ghifari.

Question 829. What was the purpose of the Prophet's expedition to Doumat Al-Jandal?
Answer 829. The purpose of the Prophet's expedition to Doumat Al-Jandal was to subdue hostile elements, force undisputed recognition out of friend and enemy alike, and capture the highway men who were involved in plundering and raiding Madinah.


Page 194

Question 830. How far was Damascus from Madina?
Answer 830. Damascus was about fifteen days march from Madina.

Question 831. What did the Prophet do to create security and peace?
Answer 831. The Prophet used decisive and steady progress and wise strict plans to create security, control the situation and make peace prevail in the area.

Question 832. What did the hypocrites do when the Prophet shifted events for the welfare of Muslims?
Answer 832. The hypocrites were silenced when the Prophet shifted events for the welfare of Muslims.

Question 833. What happened to the Jews?
Answer 833. One tribe of the Jews evacuated while the other continued to fake good neighbourliness and seemingly faithful adherence to the covenants.

Question 834. How did the Prophet’s secure strategic attitude create optimum circumstances for the Muslims?
Answer 834. The Prophet’s secure strategic attitude created optimum circumstances for the Muslims to resume their logical course in propagating Islam and communicating the Messages of the Lord to all worlds.


Page 195

Question 835. Who broke the peace of the Arabian Peninsula?
Answer 835. The Jews, whose treachery and disloyalty led to their humiliation and disgrace, broke the peace of the Arabian Peninsula.

Question 836. What did the Jewish delegation do to incite the confederates against the Prophet?
Answer 836. The Jewish delegation traveled to Makkah and Ghatfan to negotiate an unholy alliance with Quraish and encourage them to attack the Prophet, promising full support and backing.

Question 837. How many fighters did the Confederates have?
Answer 837. The Confederates had ten thousand fighters.

Question 838. What plan did the Messenger of Allah come up with to protect Madinah?
Answer 838. The Messenger of Allah came up with the plan to dig trenches around Madinah as a defensive line.

Question 839. How did the Prophet feed the thousand people digging the trench?
Answer 839. Jabir bin 'Abdullah slaughtered a sheep, cooked some barley, and invited the Prophet and some companions to eat. The Prophet then gathered all the thousand people, and dates were thrown over his cloak for them to eat.


Page 196

Question 840. Who was the leader of 3,000 Muslims when they faced the Confederates?
Answer 840. Muhammad was the leader of the 3,000 Muslims when they faced the Confederates.

Question 841. What was the strategy used by the Muslims to deter their enemies from attacking?
Answer 841. The Muslims used a trench as an obstacle to deter their enemies from attacking.

Question 842. How many fighters were in the Confederacy's army?
Answer 842. The Confederacy's army had 10,000 fighters.

Question 843. What did the Prophet strike the rock with when it wouldn't break up?
Answer 843. The Prophet struck the rock with a spade when it wouldn't break up.

Question 844. What was the outcome of 'Ali's duel with 'Amr?
Answer 844. 'Ali killed 'Amr in the duel and obliged the other attackers to evacuate.


Page 197

Question 845. What was the Messenger of Allâh's reaction when he realized he had not observed some prayers on the Day of Trench?
Answer 845. The Prophet became so indignant for this failure that he invoked Allâh’s wrath on his enemies and besought Allâh to fill their houses and graves with fire because they distracted him from observing the prayer.

Question 846. What did Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh do when he realized his end was approaching during the Trench Battle?
Answer 846. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh invoked Allâh, asking to be allowed to stay alive to continue striving against the disbelievers and beseeching Allâh not to let him die until he had had full revenge on Ban u Quraiza.

Question 847. What did Huyai, the chief criminal of Bani Nadir do in order to manipulate Ka‘b bin Asad Al -Qurazi?
Answer 847. Huyai spoke of Quraish and their notables in Al -Asyal, as well as Ghatfan and their chieftains entrenched in Uhud, all in one mind, determined to exterminate Muhammad and his followers, and also promised to stay in Ka‘b’s fort exposing himself to any potential danger in case Quraish and Ghatfan recanted.

Question 848. What did Safiyah do when she noticed a Jewish man lurking around her vulnerable garrison?
Answer 848. Safiyah took a bar of wood, went down and struck the Jew to death, then asked Hassan to loot him, but he refused.

Question 849. What effect did Safiyah's actions have on the Jews?
Answer 849. The event had a far reaching effect and discouraged the Jews from conducting further attacks, as they thought that those sites were fortified and protected by Muslim fighters.


Page 198

Question 850. What were the four Muslim prominent leaders despatched by the Messenger to investigate?
Answer 850. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh, Sa‘d bin ‘Ubada, ‘Abdullah bin Rawaha and Khawat bin Jubair.

Question 851. What did the Muslims understand from their critical position?
Answer 851. They understood that their back was vulnerable to the attacks of Banu Quraiza, and a huge army with no way to connive at in front, while their women and children unprotected standing in between.

Question 852. What did the hypocrites do in this situation?
Answer 852. The hypocrites taunted the Muslims with having indulged in delusive hopes of defeating Kisra, emperor of Persia, and Caesar, emperor of the Romans and pretended to withdraw for the defence of their homes.

Question 853. What was the Messenger's reaction when he heard the bad news?
Answer 853. The Messenger of Allâh wrapped himself in his robe and began to meditate on the perfidy of Banu Quraiza. The spirit of hopefulness prevailed over him and he rose to his feet saying: "Allâh is Great. Hearken you Muslims, to Allâh’s good tidings of victory and support."

Question 854. What did the Prophet's chief Companions advise him to do?
Answer 854. The Prophet's chief Companions advised him to put the enemy to the sword and not pursue a new course to provide security for them.


Page 199

Question 855. What strategy did Na'im bin Mas'ud use to incite the enemies of Islam?
Answer 855. Na'im bin Mas'ud used a strategem of inciteing each party to let down the other by claiming that Quraish would forsake them if they perceived that victory over Muhammad was far fetched, and the Muslims then would have terrible revenge on them.

Question 856. Who was Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman?
Answer 856. Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman was a messenger sent by the Prophet Muhammad to investigate the movements of the enemies of Islam.

Question 857. What did the Messenger of Allâh supplicate to Allâh?
Answer 857. The Messenger of Allâh supplicated for Allâh to defeat the confederates and provide security for the Muslims.

Question 858. What was the outcome of Na'im's scheme?
Answer 858. Na'im's scheme proved successful, causing a state of distrust and suspicion among the disbelieving allies which reduced their morale to a deplorable degree.

Question 859. How did Allâh respond to the call of the Muslims?
Answer 859. Allâh responded to the call of the Muslims by fulfilling His Promise, sparing them from fighting a formidable army, and inflicting a heavy blow on the Confederates.


Page 200

Question 860. When did the Battle of the Trench take place?
Answer 860. The Battle of the Trench took place in the fifth year Hijri.

Question 861. How long did the siege of Madinah last?
Answer 861. The siege of Madinah lasted for over a month, from Shawwal to Dhul Qa‘dah.

Question 862. Was there any bitter fighting recorded during the Battle of the Trench?
Answer 862. No, the Battle of the Trench was more of a battle of nerves rather than of losses and no bitter fighting was recorded.

Question 863. What did the Battle of the Trench prove?
Answer 863. The Battle of the Trench proved beyond a shadow of doubt that no forces, however huge, could ever exterminate the nascent Islamic power growing steadily in Madinah.

Question 864. What was the outcome of the Battle of the Trench?
Answer 864. The outcome of the Battle of the Trench was that when Allâh obliged the Confederates to evacuate, His Messenger was in a position to confidently declare that thenceforth he would take the initiative in war and would not wait for the land of Islam to be invaded.


Page 201

Question 865. Who visited Prophet Muhammad while he was washing in Umm Salama's house?
Answer 865. Archangel Gabriel visited Prophet Muhammad while he was washing in Umm Salama's house.

Question 866. What three alternatives did Ka'b bin Asad offer the Banu Quraiza?
Answer 866. Ka'b bin Asad offered the Banu Quraiza the alternatives to embrace Islam, to kill their children and women and challenge the Prophet and his followers to the sword, and to take Muhammad and his people by surprise on Saturday.

Question 867. Who did the Banu Quraiza request to be sent to them for advice?
Answer 867. The Banu Quraiza requested Abu Lubaba to be sent to them for advice.

Question 868. How did the Jews of Banu Quraiza have plentifully available resources during the siege?
Answer 868. The Jews of Banu Quraiza had plentifully available food and water during the siege and their strongholds were greatly fortified.

Question 869. What did Prophet Muhammad say about Abu Lubaba after learning of the incident?
Answer 869. Prophet Muhammad said, "I would have begged Allâh to forgive him if he had asked me, but since he had tied himself out of his own free will, then it was Allâh Who would turn to him in forgiveness."


Page 202

Question 870. What did Ali swear?
Answer 870. Ali swore that he would never stop until he had either stormed their garrisons or been martyred like Hamza.

Question 871. Who was Muhammad bin Salamah Al-Ansari?
Answer 871. Muhammad bin Salamah Al - Ansari was the one who supervised the handcuffing of the men.

Question 872. Who was asked to give the verdict about the tribe?
Answer 872. Sa‘d bin Mu‘adh was asked to give the verdict about the tribe.

Question 873. What did Sa‘d decide regarding the tribe?
Answer 873. Sa‘d decided that all of the able -bodied male persons belonging to the tribe should be killed, women and children taken prisoners, and their wealth divided among the Muslim fighters.

Question 874. What happened to Huyai?
Answer 874. Huyai was admitted into the audience of the Prophet with his hands tied to his neck with a rope. He was ordered to sit down and was beheaded on the spot.


Page 203

Question 875. What was Sa'd bin Mu'adh's last wish?
Answer 875. Sa'd bin Mu'adh's last wish was to see the Banu Quraiza defeated.

Question 876. How did the Muslims know Sa'd was bleeding?
Answer 876. The people knew Sa'd was bleeding when they saw the blood flowing towards them.

Question 877. Who was the man killed by a woman of the Jews during the siege of Banu Quraiza?
Answer 877. Khallad bin Suwaid was the man killed by a woman of the Jews during the siege of Banu Quraiza.

Question 878. How long was Abu Lubaba tied to a pole?
Answer 878. Abu Lubaba was tied to a pole for six nights.

Question 879. In which month and year did the siege of Banu Quraiza's forts take place?
Answer 879. The siege of Banu Quraiza's forts took place in the month of Dhul Qa'dah in the year five Hijri.


Page 204

Question 880. Who asked for permission from the Prophet to kill Salam bin Abi Al-Huqaiq?
Answer 880. The Al-Khazraj tribe asked for permission from the Prophet to kill Salam bin Abi Al-Huqaiq.

Question 881. What happened when Thumamah bin Uthal Al-Hanafi was tied to a pole at the Prophetic Mosque?
Answer 881. When Thumamah bin Uthal Al-Hanafi was tied to a pole at the Prophetic Mosque, he repeated that if the Prophet were to kill someone, they should choose one of noble descent, if they were to be gracious, they should let it be to a grateful man, and if they were to ask for money, they should ask for it from a generous man.

Question 882. Who led a platoon of thirty believers on a military mission in Muharram, the sixth year Hijri?
Answer 882. Muhammad bin Maslamah led a platoon of thirty believers on a military mission in Muharram, the sixth year Hijri.

Question 883. What happened when Thumamah bin Uthal Al-Hanafi arrived in Makkah?
Answer 883. When Thumamah bin Uthal Al-Hanafi arrived in Makkah, the Quraishites accused him of apostasy and tried to kill him.

Question 884. What did the Prophet do after Thumamah repeated his statement three times?
Answer 884. After Thumamah repeated his statement three times, the Prophet ordered that he should be released and gave him good tidings to perform the 'Umrah (lesser pilgrimage).


Page 205

Question 885. Who were the Bani Lihyan?
Answer 885. The Bani Lihyan were an Arab tribe who had acted treacherously towards the Prophet's Companions.

Question 886. What action did the Prophet take against the Bani Lihyan?
Answer 886. The Prophet set out with two hundred Muslim fighters to take revenge on the Bani Lihyan.

Question 887. What happened when the platoon led by 'Ukasha bin Al-Mihsan was dispatched to Al-Ghamir?
Answer 887. When the platoon led by 'Ukasha bin Al-Mihsan was dispatched to Al-Ghamir, the enemy immediately fled and left behind two hundred camels which were taken to Madinah.

Question 888. Who was Abul-As and what happened to him?
Answer 888. Abul-As was a relative of the Prophet and the leader of a Quraish caravan. He was intercepted by a platoon led by Zaid bin Haritha, who looted their camels. Abul-As escaped and took refuge in Zainab's (his wife and the Prophet's daughter) house. The Prophet recommended that the Muslims should restore Abul-As' wealth, which they did.

Question 889. What did the Prophet do when the power of the allied Confederates collapsed?
Answer 889. When the power of the allied Confederates collapsed, the Prophet saw it as an opportunity to take revenge on Bani Lihyan and set out with two hundred Muslim fighters.


Page 206

Question 890. Who reunited Zainab and her husband in Madinah?
Answer 890. The Prophet reunited them in Madinah.

Question 891. When did the verse about prohibiting marriage between Muslim women and disbelievers come?
Answer 891. The verse about prohibiting marriage between Muslim women and disbelievers was revealed after Zainab and her husband had been reunited.

Question 892. What was the name of the mission led by Abu ‘Ubaidah bin Al-Jarrah?
Answer 892. The mission led by Abu ‘Ubaidah bin Al-Jarrah was called the invasion of Al-Khabt.

Question 893. What did the people eat on this mission?
Answer 893. The people on this mission ate diluted yoghurt called Al-Khabt and were also provided with a sperm-whale called Al-‘Anbar which they subsisted on for half a month.

Question 894. When did the Muslims stop intercepting Quraishi caravans?
Answer 894. The Muslims stopped intercepting Quraishi caravans after Al-Hudaibiyah Treaty.


Page 207

Question 895. What battle preceded the Bani Al-Mustaliq Ghazwah?
Answer 895. The battle of Badr.

Question 896. Who was the Prophet's in-laws?
Answer 896. The hundred enemy prisoners who embraced Islam and were then called the Prophet's in-laws.

Question 897. What did the Muslims do after arrow shooting for an hour?
Answer 897. The Muslims rushed and engaged with the enemy in a battle that ended in full victory for the Muslims.

Question 898. Who was 'Abdullah bin Ubai?
Answer 898. 'Abdullah bin Ubai was a terrible hypocrite who feigned Islam after the battle of Badr but deep at heart remained an enemy of Allah, His Messenger, and all the believers.

Question 899. What did 'Abdullah bin Ubai do shortly before the Prophet's Friday speech?
Answer 899. 'Abdullah bin Ubai used to stand up among the Muslims shortly before the Prophet's Friday speech and mockingly say to them: "This is the Messenger of Allâh, who has honoured you with Allâh, so you have got to support, obey and listen to him," and then he would sit down.


Page 208

Question 900. What did the Prophet promise the Bani Nadir?
Answer 900. He promised them support and encouragement to make an alliance with him.

Question 901. What was the reaction of the enemies of Islam to the success of the Prophet?
Answer 901. The enemies of Islam realized they could not exterminate Islam in the battlefields, so they resorted to launching a propaganda campaign aimed at slandering the Prophet in a sensitive area of the Arabian life.

Question 902. What was the rumour which had a negative impact on some Muslims?
Answer 902. The rumour was that the Prophet's marriage to Zainab bint Jahsh was a heinous sin and that the marriage would not be considered valid according to the Noble Qur’ân since it would make him his fifth wife while the number was strictly limited to a maximum of four.

Question 903. What verses were revealed to acquit the Prophet and invalidate the ill designs and schemes?
Answer 903. The verses revealed were: "O Prophet (Muhammad )! Keep your duty to Allâh, and obey not the disbelievers and the hypocrites (i.e. do not follow their advices). Verily!  Allâh is Ever All -Knower, All -Wise."

Question 904. What is the opposite of a true believer according to the text?
Answer 904. According to the text, a true believer is the opposite of someone who is treacherous, disloyal, perfidious, niggardly, and greedy.


Page 209

Question 905. What was the reason for the quarrel that nearly broke out between the Emigrants and the Helpers during the Ghazwah of Bani Al-Mustaliq?
Answer 905. The quarrel was nearly caused by plots and evil intentions designed by the hypocrites.

Question 906. What did the hypocrites swear when the Muslims challenged their hostile plans?
Answer 906. The hypocrites swore "the most honourable will expel the meanest out of Madinah,"

Question 907. What happened between 'Abdullah bin 'Ubai and his son when the party reached Madinah?
Answer 907. When the party reached Madinah, 'Abdullah's son barred his father's entry into the town until he confessed and declared that he himself was the meanest of the citizens of Madinah and the Prophet the most honourable of them.

Question 908. What was the incident that took place on the Prophet's return from the expedition against Bani Mustaliq?
Answer 908. On the Prophet's return from the expedition against Bani Mustaliq, 'Aishah went out some distance from the camp to attend to the call of nature and lost her necklace.

Question 909. How did the Muslims respond to the malicious scandal spread against 'Aishah?
Answer 909. The Muslims pronounced unanimous judgement that if it were true, the person concerned should suffer the most ignominious punishment of stoning to death.


Page 210

Question 910. What action did the Prophet take to intervene in the incident between Al-Aws and Al-Khazraj?
Answer 910. The Prophet silenced both parties on the sport.

Question 911. Who burst into tears and stayed for two days and one sleepless night ceaselessly weeping?
Answer 911. 'Aishah, unaware of the rumours being circulated, burst into tears and stayed for two days and one sleepless night ceaselessly weeping.

Question 912. What did the Prophet tell 'Aishah when he visited her during this situation?
Answer 912. The Prophet told 'Aishah, "If you are innocent, Allâh will acquit you, otherwise, you have to beg for His forgiveness and pardon."

Question 913. What was the consequence of the revelation for 'Aishah?
Answer 913. The revelation came acquitting ‘Aishah of all the slanderous talk fabricated against her.

Question 914. How did the Prophet and 'Umar bin Al-Khattab discuss Abdullah bin Ubai?
Answer 914. The Prophet and 'Umar discussed that if the Prophet had had Abdullah bin Ubai killed, there would have been many people who would have furiously hastened to fight for him. 'Umar replied that the Prophet's judgement was much more sound than his own.


Page 211

Question 915. Who was sent to kill Abu Sufyan?
Answer 915. 'Amr bin Omaiya Ad-Damari and Salamah bin Abi Salamah were sent on an errand to kill Abu Sufyan.

Question 916. What did Prophet Muhammad advise Abdur Rahman to do if they obeyed him?
Answer 916. Prophet Muhammad advised Abdur Rahman to marry the king’s daughter if they obeyed him.

Question 917. What happened to Umm Qirfa and her daughter after she attempted to kill the Prophet?
Answer 917. Umm Qirfa and her daughter were captured and the daughter was sent to Makkah as a ransom for the release of some Muslim prisoners there.

Question 918. What happened to the people of 'Uraina who killed the Prophet's shepherd?
Answer 918. The people of 'Uraina who killed the Prophet's shepherd were captured, had their hands and feet cut off, their eyes gouged out, and then were thrown on the stony ground until they died.

Question 919. What was the outcome of the battle of Al-Hudaibiyah?
Answer 919. The battle of Al-Hudaibiyah resulted in a truce agreement that specified mutual respect and impunity between the two belligerent parties of believers and disbelievers.


Page 212

Question 920. How was the power of Islam in the text pointed to?
Answer 920. Markedly.

Question 921. What was recorded about Islam in the text?
Answer 921. Its perpetuity in pan-Arabia.

Question 922. What does the text refer to when it mentions the 'heavenly religion'?
Answer 922. Islam.

Question 923. What was the focus of the text?
Answer 923. The ever-growing power of Islam.

Question 924. Where is the perpetuity of Islam mentioned in the text?
Answer 924. In pan-Arabia.


Page 213

Question 925. What was the dream Prophet Muhammad saw before setting out for Makkah?
Answer 925. Prophet Muhammad saw in a dream that he had entered the sacred sanctuary in Makkah in security with his followers, and was performing the ceremonies of ‘Umrah (lesser pilgrimage).  Their heads were being shaved and hair cut off.

Question 926. How many people were accompanying the Prophet on the march towards Makkah?
Answer 926. The Prophet was accompanied by fifteen hundred Muslims including his wife Umm Salamah.

Question 927. How did the Muslims plan to enter Makkah?
Answer 927. The Muslims carried no weapons with them and had no intention of fighting. They planned to enter Makkah peacefully and perform the ‘Umrah (lesser pilgrimage).

Question 928. What happened when the Muslims reached Thaniyat Al -Marar?
Answer 928. When the Muslims reached Thaniyat Al -Marar, the Prophet’s camel stumbled and knelt down, and was too stubborn to move. The Prophet then placed an arrow in the ditch and water immediately gushed forth.

Question 929. What were the plans of the Quraishites when they heard that the Muslims were marching towards Makkah?
Answer 929. The Quraishites held a meeting and decided to resist the Prophet’s mission at all costs. They sent out two hundred horsemen led by Khalid bin Al -Waleed to take the Muslims by surprise.


Page 214

Question 930. What message did the Prophet give to the first envoy from Quraish?
Answer 930. The Prophet gave the message to the first envoy from Quraish that if they stand in the way of the Muslims or debar them from pilgrimage to the Ka‘bah, he would fight them to the last man.


Page 215

Question 931. What did the Quraishites offer 'Uthman when the Muslims approached Al-Ka'bah?
Answer 931. They offered 'Uthman the permission to perform the pilgrimage if he so desired in his individual capacity.

Question 932. What is the name of the pledge the Muslims took in order to avenge the death of their companion and stand by Muhammad?
Answer 932. The pledge is called Bay‘at Ar-Ridwan.

Question 933. What does the Noble Qur’ân refer to this pledge?
Answer 933. The Noble Qur’ân refers to this pledge in the following words: "Indeed, Allâh was pleased with the believers when they gave their Bai‘a (pledge) to you (O Muhammad) under the tree."

Question 934. What were the clauses of the treaty of reconciliation and peace between the Muslims and Quraish?
Answer 934. The clauses of the treaty of reconciliation and peace between the Muslims and Quraish stated that the Muslims shall return this time and come back next year, but they shall not stay in Makkah for more than three days; that they shall not come back armed but can bring with them swords only sheathed in scabbards and these shall be kept in bags; that war activities shall be suspended for ten years, during which both parties will live in full security and neither will raise sword against the other; that if anyone from Quraish goes over to Muhammad without his guardian’s permission, he should be sent back to Quraish, but should any of Muhammad’s followers return to Quraish, he shall not be sent back; and that whosoever wishes to join Muhammad, or enter into treaty with him, should have the liberty to do so; and likewise whosoever wishes to join Quraish, or enter into treaty with them, should be allowed to do so.

Question 935. What did Suhail bin 'Amr demand when the agreement was to be committed to writing?
Answer 935. Suhail bin 'Amr demanded that the customary formula Bi-ismika Allâhumma, i.e., "In Your Name, O Allâh!" be used instead of Bismillâh ir -Rahman ir -Raheem, i.e., "In the Name of Allâh, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful".


Page 216

Question 936. What was the treaty of Al-Hudaibiyah about?
Answer 936. The treaty of Al-Hudaibiyah was an agreement between the Quraish and the Prophet Muhammad, and it outlined the peace between them and the resolution of an ongoing conflict.


Page 217

Question 937. What did the Prophet do when the believing women emigrated to Madinah?
Answer 937. The Prophet granted them refuge.

Question 938. What did the verse revealed to the Prophet say about the believing women?
Answer 938. The verse said not to send them back to the disbelievers, that they were not lawful (wives) for the disbelievers nor were the disbelievers lawful (husbands) for them, and to give the disbelievers that (amount of money) which they have spent to them.

Question 939. What was the purpose of the Al-Hudaibiyah Treaty?
Answer 939. The purpose of the Al-Hudaibiyah Treaty was to recognize the legitimate Muslims’ existence on the scene of political life in Arabia and to provide an atmosphere of freedom as regards ideology or religion.

Question 940. How many men went out with the Prophet to Al-Hudaibiyah?
Answer 940. The Prophet went out to Al-Hudaibiyah with 1,400 men.

Question 941. How much larger was the group of men when the Prophet set out to liberate Makkah two years later?
Answer 941. The group of men was 10,000 when the Prophet set out to liberate Makkah two years later.


Page 218

Question 942. What did the article of the treaty pertaining to cessation of hostilities for ten years point to?
Answer 942. The article of the treaty pertaining to cessation of hostilities for ten years pointed directly to the utter failure of political haughtiness exercised by Quraish and its allies.

Question 943. How did the article that speaks of handing over believing men without their guardians’ consent to Quraish prove to be a blessing?
Answer 943. The article that speaks of handing over believing men without their guardians’ consent to Quraish proved to be a great blessing as the Muslims sent back to Makkah were not likely to renounce the blessings of Islam; contrariwise, those very Muslims turned out to be centres of influence for Islam.

Question 944. What was ‘Umar’s response to the treaty clauses?
Answer 944. ‘Umar was unable to contain himself for the distress taking full grasp of his heart and urged the Prophet by asking if they should suffer any humiliation in the matter of faith.

Question 945. What did the Prophet tell ‘Umar to reassure him?
Answer 945. The Prophet told ‘Umar to reassure him that he was the true Messenger of Allâh and that he never disobeyed Him and that He shall help him.

Question 946. What was revealed to the Prophet and his followers after the situation was resolved?
Answer 946. The Chapter of Victory (48th) was revealed to the Prophet and his followers after the situation was resolved.


Page 219

Answer 946. The Prophet said, "Quraish has given us its own blood."

Answer 946. 'Umar was overjoyed and greatly regretted his former attitude. He used to spend in charity, observe fasting and prayer and free as many slaves as possible in expiation for that reckless attitude he had assumed.

Answer 946. Verily, We have given you (O Muhammad ) a manifest victory in the early part of the year 7 A.H.

Answer 946. The Messenger of Allâh summoned ‘Umar and imported to him the happy tidings.

Answer 946. The three prominent men that Islamized were 'Amr bin Al -‘As, Khalid bin Al -Waleed and ‘Uthman bin Tal hah.


Page 220

Question 947. What was the treaty at Hudaibiyah?
Answer 947. The treaty at Hudaibiyah was a peaceful settlement between the Muslims and Quraish, a bitter enemy of Islam.

Question 948. What was the third support of a tripartite enemy that was broken?
Answer 948. The third support of a tripartite enemy that was broken was Quraish.

Question 949. What did the Jews do after being banished from Madinah?
Answer 949. After being banished from Madinah, the Jews resorted to Khaibar to change it into a hot bed of intrigues against the Prophet.

Question 950. What did the treaty of Hudaibiyah allow the Muslims to do?
Answer 950. The treaty of Hudaibiyah allowed the Muslims to intensify their Islamic career and double up their ceaseless efforts in propagating their Da‘wah.

Question 951. How is this post-treaty stage divided?
Answer 951. This post-treaty stage is divided into two sections: ceaseless peaceful efforts in propagating the Islamic Da‘wah (Call) and initiating a sort of correspondence with kings and princes of the neighbouring political entities, and military activities.


Page 221

Question 952. Who were the envoys chosen to spread the message of Islam?
Answer 952. Envoys were chosen on the basis of their experience and knowledge.

Question 953. What did the Prophet's seal say?
Answer 953. The Prophet's seal said "Muhammad the Messenger of Allâh".

Question 954. Who was the king of Abyssinia that received the Prophet's message?
Answer 954. The king of Abyssinia was Ashama bin Al -Abjar.

Question 955. When was the letter sent to Negus?
Answer 955. The letter was sent to Negus either late in the sixth year or early in the seventh year A.H.

Question 956. What did the letter sent to Negus read?
Answer 956. The letter sent to Negus read "This letter is sent from Muhammad, the Prophet to Negus Al -Ashama, the king of Abyssinia (Ethiopia). Peace be upon him who follows true guidance and believes in Allâh and His Messenger. I bear witness that there is no god but Allâh Alone with no associate, He has taken neither a wife nor a son, and that Muhammad is His slave and Messenger. I call you unto the fold of Islam; if you embrace Islam, you will find safety, 'Say (O Muhammad ): ‘O people of the Scripture (Jews and Christians), come to a word that is just between us and you, that we worship none but Allâh, and that we associate no partners with Him, and that none of us shall take others as lords besides Allâh.’ Then, if they turn away, say: ‘Bear witness that we are Muslims.’ Should you reject this invitation, then you will be held responsible for all the evils of the Christians of your people."


Page 222

Question 957. Who is Negus?
Answer 957. Negus is the king of Abyssinia (Ethiopia).

Question 958. What type of letter did the Prophet Muhammad write to Negus?
Answer 958. The Prophet Muhammad wrote an Apostolic letter to Negus.

Question 959. What did Negus do when he received the letter?
Answer 959. Negus placed the parchment on his eye, descended to the floor, confessed his faith in Islam and wrote a reply back to the Prophet.

Question 960. What did Negus write in his reply?
Answer 960. In his reply Negus wrote, “We fully acknowledge that with which you have been sent to us and we have entertained your cousin and his companions. I bear witness that you are the Messenger of Allah, true and confirming (those who have gone before you), I pledge to you through your cousin and surrender myself through him to the Lord of the worlds."

Question 961. What happened to Negus after the letter was sent?
Answer 961. Negus later died in Rajab 9 A.H. shortly after Tabuk Ghazwa, and the Prophet announced his death and observed prayer in absentia for him.


Page 223

Question 962. Who is Muqawqas?
Answer 962. Muqawqas is Egypt's vicegerent at the time.

Question 963. What did Hatib tell Muqawqas?
Answer 963. Hatib told Muqawqas to accept Islam and that if they refused, they would bear the burden of the transgression of all the Copts.

Question 964. What was Muqawqas' response?
Answer 964. Muqawqas said he was not able to relinquish their religion for a better one.

Question 965. What gifts did Muqawqas give to the Prophet?
Answer 965. Muqawqas gave two maids from Coptic families, clothing, and a steed to the Prophet.

Question 966. Did Muqawqas accept Islam?
Answer 966. No, Muqawqas did not accept Islam.


Page 224

Question 967. What is the letter about?
Answer 967. The letter is about the invitation for Chosroes, king of Persia, to accept the religion of Allah and Muhammad as His slave and Messenger.

Question 968. Who was chosen to carry the letter?
Answer 968. Abdullah bin Hudhafa As- Sahmi was chosen to carry the letter.

Question 969. How did the King of Persia respond to the letter?
Answer 969. The King of Persia was enraged by the letter and tore it into shreds before issuing a command to arrest the Prophet.

Question 970. Who was the king of the Byzantines?
Answer 970. The king of the Byzantines was Hercules.

Question 971. What was the invitation of the letter to Hercules?
Answer 971. The invitation of the letter to Hercules was for him to embrace Islam so that he may live in security.


Page 225

Question 972. What does the letter sent to Caesar by the Prophet include?
Answer 972. The letter sent to Caesar included a message of Islam, stating that none of us shall take others as lords besides Allâh.

Question 973. Where was Abu Sufyan when he was summoned to the court by Hercules?
Answer 973. Abu Sufyan was trading in Ash-Sham, Jerusalem when he was summoned to the court by Hercules.

Question 974. What was Abu Sufyan's testimony regarding the Prophet's character?
Answer 974. Abu Sufyan's testimony regarding the Prophet's character was that he descends from a noble family, never tells lies or betrays others, and bids people to worship Allâh Alone with no associate, and abandon the beliefs of their fathers.

Question 975. What impression did Hercules have of the Prophet after Abu Sufyan's testimony?
Answer 975. Hercules was convinced of the truthfulness of Muhammad's Prophethood after Abu Sufyan's testimony. He commented that the Prophet does not affect any previous example of Prophethood and that betrayal is alien to him due to his real Prophethood.

Question 976. What did Hercules say after he had heard the Prophet's letter being read?
Answer 976. Hercules said that the definite and clear-cut exposition of the Islamic message could not but create a tense atmosphere amongst the clergy present at the court.


Page 226

Question 977. Who wrote a letter to Mundhir bin Sawa, Governor of Bahrain?
Answer 977. The Prophet  wrote a letter to Mundhir bin Sawa, Governor of Bahrain.

Question 978. Why did the king of Banu Al-Asfar fear Muhammad?
Answer 978. The king of Banu Al-Asfar feared Muhammad because the matter of Ibn Abi Kabshah (i.e. Muhammad) had become so prominent.

Question 979. What happened when Dihyah Al-Kalbi was intercepted on the way back to Madinah?
Answer 979. When Dihyah Al-Kalbi was intercepted on the way back to Madinah, people from Judham tribe in Hasmi looted the presents sent to the Prophet and inflicted heavy losses on those people and captured 1000 camels, 5000 of their cattle and a hundred women and boys.

Question 980. What type of response did the Prophet give to the chief of Judham?
Answer 980. The Prophet gave a positive response to the former’s protest and ordered that all the spoils and captives be returned.

Question 981. What type of advice did the Prophet give to Mundhir bin Sawa in his letter?
Answer 981. The Prophet advised Mundhir bin Sawa to give the new Muslims full chance to preach their religion and to forgive offenders, while those who want to go on in their Jewish or Magian faith, should be made to pay Jizya (poll-tax).


Page 227

Question 982. stions and Answers:
Question 983. Who was the recipient of the letter from Muhammad?
Answer 983. Haudha bin ‘Ali, Governor of Yamama.

Question 984. What did the Prophet Muhammad typically do in response to those who put a demand in the letter?
Answer 984. The Prophet usually turned down such peremptory tones and said that the whole matter was in the Hand of Allâh.

Question 985. Who was Shuja‘ bin Wahab?
Answer 985. Shuja‘ bin Wahab was the envoy chosen to carry the letter to Harith.

Question 986. What was the reward given to Sulait bin ‘Amr Al -‘Amiri?
Answer 986. The governor presented Sulait bin ‘Amr Al -‘Amiri with clothes made of Hajr fabric.

Question 987. Who did the Prophet say would be killed?
Answer 987. The Prophet said that the liar from Yamama who arrogated Prophethood to himself would be killed.


Page 228

Question 988. What was the purport of ‘Amr's mission?
Answer 988. The mission was to invite ‘Abd and his brother to the Call of Islam and to believe in Allâh Alone with no associate, discard any other deities and testify to the slavehood and Messengership of Muhammad.

Question 989. What did ‘Amr wish regarding his father?
Answer 989. ‘Amr wished that his father had embraced Islam and been truthful to it before his death.

Question 990. When did ‘Amr embrace Islam?
Answer 990. ‘Amr embraced Islam when he was at Negus’s court.

Question 991. How did Negus' people react to his Islamization?
Answer 991. Negus' people approved of him and followed his steps. The bishops and monks did the same.

Question 992. Had Hercules been informed of the Islamization of Negus?
Answer 992. Yes, ‘Amr confirmed that Hercules had been informed of the Islamization of Negus.


Page 229

Question 993. What was Negus's response when he heard the news that he had to discontinue paying land tax to Hercules?
Answer 993. Negus swore he would discontinue the land tax and added that he himself would do the same if he were not sparing of his kingship.

Question 994. What did the Prophet exhort his followers to do?
Answer 994. The Prophet exhorted his followers to obey Allâh, the All -Mighty, the All -Glorious, be pious and  maintain good ties with family kin; he forbade disobedience, aggression, adultery, wine, idolatry and devotion to the cross.

Question 995. What did the Prophet offer to Negus's brother if he surrendered himself to Islam?
Answer 995. If Negus's brother surrendered himself to Islam, the Prophet would give him authority over his own people and take alms tax from the wealthy people to be given to the needy.

Question 996. What was the letter sent to Negus about?
Answer 996. The letter sent to Negus was about the Prophet's message and a call for him to embrace Islam.

Question 997. When was the letter sent to Negus sent?
Answer 997. The letter was sent at a much later date than the others, most likely after the conquest of Makkah.


Page 230

Question 998. What had happened to surprise the Meccans?
Answer 998. They had witnessed a new Prophet appear with a new religion, Islam.

Question 999. How did the Meccans react to this?
Answer 999. They were initially filled with disbelief.

Question 1000. What occupied their thoughts after the arrival of this new Prophet?
Answer 1000. Embracing Islam and the advent of the new Prophet.

Question 1001. What was the new Prophet proposing?
Answer 1001. He was proposing a new religion, Islam.

Question 1002. What did the Meccans initially feel upon witnessing this new Prophet?
Answer 1002. They were filled with disbelief.


Page 231

Question 1003. What was the incident that happened at Dhu Qarad?
Answer 1003. The incident that happened at Dhu Qarad was a skirmish carried out against a platoon of Bani Fazarah by Salamah bin Al-Akwa‘.

Question 1004. How did Salamah bin Al-Akwa‘ fight against the Bani Fazarah?
Answer 1004. Salamah bin Al-Akwa‘ fought against the Bani Fazarah by shooting at them with arrows and chanting self-eulogatory verse. He also continued chasing them and throwing stones at them.

Question 1005. How did the Prophet respond to Salamah's suggestion to follow after the marauders?
Answer 1005. The Prophet responded to Salamah's suggestion to follow after the marauders by saying he had taken enough and to show magnanimity. He also granted him the booty of rods and mantles left by them.

Question 1006. Who was the hero of this battle?
Answer 1006. The hero of this battle was Salamah bin Al-Akwa‘.

Question 1007. When did the incident at Dhu Qarad take place?
Answer 1007. The incident at Dhu Qarad took place three days before the battle of Khaibar.


Page 232

Question 1008. Who is the best horseman today?
Answer 1008. Abu Qatadah.

Question 1009. Who is the best footman today?
Answer 1009. Salamah.

Question 1010. How many shares of the booty did Abu Qatadah allot to the speaker?
Answer 1010. Two shares.

Question 1011. What was the speaker asked to mount?
Answer 1011. Abu Qatadah asked the speaker to mount his she-camel called Al-‘Adba’.

Question 1012. Where was Abu Qatadah intending to return to?
Answer 1012. Madinah.


Page 233

Question 1013. What was the name of the village near to Khaibar?
Answer 1013. The village near to Khaibar was Madinah.

Question 1014. What had triggered Bani Quraiza to practise treachery?
Answer 1014. The Jews of Khaibar had united by an ancient alliance with the Confederates, which had triggered Bani Quraiza to practise treachery.

Question 1015. Who was chosen to run the affairs of Madinah when the Prophet set forth to take the spoils?
Answer 1015. Siba‘ bin ‘Arfatah Al -Ghifari was chosen to run the affairs of Madinah.

Question 1016. How many people had sworn allegiance to the Prophet to accompany him in his march against Khaibar?
Answer 1016. 1400 people had sworn allegiance to the Prophet to accompany him in his march against Khaibar.

Question 1017. What important incident occurred during the Prophet's march against Khaibar?
Answer 1017. During the Prophet's march against Khaibar, Abu Huraira converted to Islam.


Page 234

Question 1018. : Who did the Prophet Muhammad delegate to the Jews of Khaibar?
Answer 1018. : The Prophet Muhammad delegated an envoy to the Jews of Khaibar.

Question 1019. : What did the Jews of Khaibar promise Ghatfan if they managed to beat the Muslims?
Answer 1019. : The Jews of Khaibar promised Ghatfan to grant them half the yield of the fruit that their farms could yield if they managed to beat the Muslims.

Question 1020. : What did the Muslims do to entertain Allah's greatness on their way to Khaibar?
Answer 1020. : The Muslims began to entertain Allah's greatness on their way to Khaibar by shouting at the top of their voices: "Allah is Great, Allah is Great, there is no god but Allah."

Question 1021. : What did the Prophet Muhammad do when the Muslims had too little food provisions?
Answer 1021. : When the Muslims had too little food provisions, the Prophet Muhammad took it in his hand and it immediately grew in quantity, so they all ate to their fill.

Question 1022. : What did the Prophet Muhammad do in a spot called As-Sahba before proceeding to Khaibar?
Answer 1022. : In a spot called As-Sahba, the Prophet Muhammad observed the afternoon prayer, then called his Companions to have whatever food provisions they had. They ate to their fill and then he and the others rinsed their mouths and performed the evening prayer without ablution; he did the same for the night prayer.


Page 235

Question 1023. Who was the first man to carry the banner in the battle of Khaibar?
Answer 1023. 'Ali bin Abi Talib was the first man to carry the banner in the battle of Khaibar.

Question 1024. How long did it take for the Muslims to storm the fortress of As-Sa'b?
Answer 1024. It took three days for the Muslims to storm the fortress of As-Sa'b.

Question 1025. Who proposed that the Muslims move to another spot to provide maximum logistic facilities?
Answer 1025. Hubab bin Al-Mundhir proposed that the Muslims move to another spot to provide maximum logistic facilities.

Question 1026. What did the Prophet Muhammad say when he approached the vicinity of Khaibar?
Answer 1026. When he approached the vicinity of Khaibar, the Prophet Muhammad said, "O Allâh! Lord of the seven heavens and what they h arbour beneath, Lord of the seven earths and what lies in their wombs, Lord of devils and whomsoever they have led astray; we beseech You to grant us the good of this village (Khaibar), the good of its inhabitants and the good that lies in it. We seek refuge with You from the evil of this village, the evil of its inhabitants, and the evil that lies in it."

Question 1027. How many forts were there in Khaibar?
Answer 1027. There were eight forts in Khaibar, split into two parts with five forts in the first and three in the second.


Page 236

Question 1028. What did the Prophet do when he inquired about the cooking and fires?
Answer 1028. The Prophet ordered that they throw away the meat and wash the cooking pots, forbidding the practice of eating such meat.

Question 1029. What advice did a Jewish spy give to the Prophet about the fort of Az-Zubair?
Answer 1029. The Jewish spy told the Prophet about a subterranean water source that provided them with water, and advised that it be cut off in order to undermine their resistance.

Question 1030. How did the Prophet's army eventually gain access to the fort of An-Nizar?
Answer 1030. The Prophet ordered that rams be used which caused cracks in the ramparts providing an easy access into the heart of the fort.

Question 1031. What was the result of the Muslims siege of the forts in the second part of Khaibar?
Answer 1031. The Jews asked for a negotiable peace treaty when they realized they would perish if the Prophet used the rams.

Question 1032. Was the second part of Khaibar conquered by force or peace negotiations?
Answer 1032. According to Ibn Ishaq, Al-Qamus fort was conquered by force. Al-Waqidi maintained that the three forts were taken through peace negotiations and force, if any, was only resorted to hand the fort over to the Muslims.


Page 237

Question 1033. Who was despatched to the Messenger of Allâh to negotiate the surrender treaty?
Answer 1033. Ibn Abi Al-Huqaiq was despatched to the Messenger of Allâh to negotiate the surrender treaty.

Question 1034. What did the Prophet agree to spare?
Answer 1034. The Prophet agreed to spare the lives of the people on condition they evacuate Khaibar and the adjacent land.

Question 1035. What did Muhammad do with the land of Khaibar?
Answer 1035. Muhammad divided the land of Khaibar into two: one half to provide the food to be stored in case of any accidental calamity that might befall the Muslims, and for entertaining the foreign delegates who started to frequent Madinah a lot; the other half would go to the Muslims who had witnessed Al-Hudaibiyah event whether present or absent.

Question 1036. What happened to Kinanah bin Ar-Rabi‘?
Answer 1036. Kinanah bin Ar-Rabi‘ was obdurate in his denial and so he was killed when the musk was discovered and his dishonesty was proven.

Question 1037. Who arrived at the same time as the conquest of Khaibar?
Answer 1037. The conquest of Khaibar coincided with the arrival of the Prophet’s cousin Ja‘far bin Abi Talib and his companions along with Abi Musa Al-Ash‘ari and some Muslims from Abyssinia (Ethiopia).


Page 238

Question 1038. Who requested the emigrants to come to Madinah?
Answer 1038. Negus, the king of Abyssinia (Ethiopia), requested the emigrants to come to Madinah through a Prophetic deputy, ‘Amr bin Omaiya Ad-Damari.

Question 1039. Who chose Safiyah from amongst the captives?
Answer 1039. Dihyah Al-Kalbi chose Safiyah from amongst the captives.

Question 1040. How did the Prophet respond to Zainab bint Al-Harith's attempt to poison him?
Answer 1040. The Prophet connived at Zainab bint Al-Harith's attempt to poison him and ordered that she be killed when Bishr bin Al-Bara' died from it.

Question 1041. What happened when the Prophet approached Wadi Al-Qura?
Answer 1041. The Prophet approached Wadi Al-Qura and mobilized his forces. He invited the Jews to embrace Islam, but as they refused he fought them for approximately two days and resulted in full surrender of the Jews.

Question 1042. How did the Jews of Taima' respond to the Muslim army?
Answer 1042. The Jews of Taima' showed no willingness to fight the Muslim army and chose to pay jizya or poll-tax, along with their agreement to obey the laws of the Islamic State.


Page 239

Question 1043. Who offered the treaty to the Prophet?
Answer 1043. The Jews took the initiative and offered to sign a reconciliation treaty to the effect that they receive protection but pay tribute in return.

Question 1044. When did the Prophet return home?
Answer 1044. The Prophet made his way back home and arrived in Madinah in late Safar or early Rabi‘ Al -Awwal 7 A.H.

Question 1045. What was the Prophet's reason for not evacuating Madinah during the prohibited months?
Answer 1045. The Prophet realized that evacuating Madinah after the lapse of the prohibited months would not be wise due to the presence of desert bedouins who could potentially plunder, loot and commit acts of piracy.

Question 1046. Who was sent by the Prophet to deter the bedouins?
Answer 1046. The Prophet despatched Aban bin Sa‘id at the head of a platoon to deter the bedouins and forestall any attempt at raiding the headquarters of the nascent Islamic state during his absence in Khaibar.

Question 1047. What happened when the Prophet reached Khaibar?
Answer 1047. The Prophet had achieved his objective and subdued the Jews completely and Aban successfully joined the Prophet in Khaibar after it had been conquered.


Page 240

Question 1048. What was the name of the expedition?
Answer 1048. The expedition was called Dhat-ur-Riqa‘.

Question 1049. How many people were in the expedition?
Answer 1049. There were six people in the expedition.

Question 1050. What happened when a polytheist took the Prophet's sword while he was napping?
Answer 1050. The polytheist asked the Prophet (who was unarmed) "Who would hold me back from killing you now?" The Prophet then answered: "It is Allâh."

Question 1051. What did the Prophet do when the polytheist asked to testify to the Oneness of Allâh and the Messengership of Muhammad?
Answer 1051. The Prophet set the man free and let him go to his people to say to them that he had seen the best one among all people.

Question 1052. Who was the first sentry that was shot by the husband of the Arabian woman taken prisoner?
Answer 1052. The first sentry was Abbad bin Bishr.


Page 241

Question 1053. What did the polytheists do in response to the victory of the Muslims at the Expedition of Dhat-ur-Riqa’?
Answer 1053. The polytheists began to acquiesce in the prevailing situation and resigned themselves to new geopolitical conditions working in favour of the new religion. Some of them even embraced Islam and took an active part in the conquest of Makkah and the battle of Hunain.

Question 1054. Who was the leader of the thirty-horseman group that marched towards Khaibar?
Answer 1054. The thirty-horseman group was headed by ‘Abdullah bin Rawaha.

Question 1055. Who commented on the death of Mardas bin Nahik after he had pronounced the testimony of Allah’s Oneness?
Answer 1055. The Prophet commented on the death of Mardas bin Nahik after he had pronounced the testimony of Allah’s Oneness, addressing his Companions: "Would you rip open his heart to discern whether he is truthful or a liar?"

Question 1056. What action did ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab take to discipline the people of Hawazin?
Answer 1056. ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab set out to a spot called Turbah in Sha’ban 7 A.H. to discipline the people of Hawazin.

Question 1057. How many Muslim fighters were with Basheer bin Sa’d Al-Ansari when he marched towards Yemen and Jabar?
Answer 1057. Basheer bin Sa’d Al-Ansari marched towards Yemen and Jabar at the head of 300 Muslim fighters.


Page 242

Question 1058. Who gathered to raid the outskirts of Madinah?
Answer 1058. Basheer and his men.

Question 1059. What was the purpose of their march?
Answer 1059. To reach their destination.

Question 1060. Why did the polytheists flee?
Answer 1060. Upon hearing of the advent of the Muslims.

Question 1061. Who came to Ghabah?
Answer 1061. Jashm bin Mu‘awiyah.

Question 1062. Who was sent by the Prophet to investigate?
Answer 1062. Abu Hadrad with two men.


Page 243

Question 1063. What did the Muslims do when they entered the city of Makkah?
Answer 1063. The Muslims entered the city with their swords in their scabbards, with the Prophet at the head of them on his she-camel, Al-Qaswa'.

Question 1064. Where did the Muslims stay after they had performed the basic rites of the lesser pilgrimage?
Answer 1064. After the Muslims had performed the basic rites of the lesser pilgrimage, they stayed at a village called Sarif.

Question 1065. How many people did the Prophet proceed with to Makkah?
Answer 1065. The Prophet proceeded with 2000 people plus some women and children and 60 camels for sacrifice to Makkah.

Question 1066. What did the Quraishites do when the Muslims entered Makkah?
Answer 1066. The Quraishites left the place and retired to their tents on the adjoining hills when the Muslims entered Makkah.

Question 1067. What happened during the Prophet's visit to Makkah?
Answer 1067. During the Prophet's visit to Makkah, his uncle 'Abbas offered his sister-in-law Maimuna – the daughter of Harith – to him and the marriage took place in Sarif.


Page 244

Question 1068. What are the two designations given to the lesser pilgrimage?
Answer 1068. The two designations given to the lesser pilgrimage are the compensatory lesser pilgrimage, performed instead of that uncompleted of Hudaibiyah, and the lesser pilgrimage consequent on certain terms of a treaty already agreed upon.

Question 1069. What were the military operations that took place at the conclusion of the lesser pilgrimage?
Answer 1069. The military operations that took place at the conclusion of the lesser pilgrimage included a platoon of 50 men led by Ibn Abi Al -‘Awja’, Ghalib bin ‘Abdullah at the head of 200 men, and Ka‘b bin ‘Umair Al -Ansari at the head of 15 men.

Question 1070. What happened to the platoon of 50 men led by Ibn Abi Al -‘Awja’?
Answer 1070. The platoon of 50 men led by Ibn Abi Al -‘Awja’ were sent to the habitations of Bani Saleem inviting them to embrace Islam, but all the words fell on deaf ears. Fierce fighting erupted between both parties during which the Muslim leader was wounded, and two of the enemy were captured.

Question 1071. Who led the 200 men to Fadak?
Answer 1071. Ghalib bin ‘Abdullah led the 200 men to Fadak.

Question 1072. What was the insignificant skirmish that occurred in Rabi‘ Al -Awwal 8 A.H.?
Answer 1072. The insignificant skirmish that occurred in Rabi‘ Al -Awwal 8 A.H. was when Shuja‘ bin Wahab Al -Asadi, along with 25 men, marched towards Bani Hawazin tribe where they encountered no resistance but managed to gain some booty.


Page 245

Question 1073. What is the name of the battle the text is discussing?
Answer 1073. The Battle of Mu'tah.

Question 1074. What year did the battle take place?
Answer 1074. 8 A.H. / September 629 A.D.

Question 1075. Who was appointed to lead the Muslim army?
Answer 1075. Zaid bin Haritha.

Question 1076. What were the instructions given to the Muslim army?
Answer 1076. Fight the disbelievers in the Name of Allâh, neither breach a covenant nor entertain treachery, and under no circumstances a new -born, woman, an ageing man or a hermit should be killed; moreover neither trees should be cut down nor homes demolished.

Question 1077. How many troops did Heraclius mobilize?
Answer 1077. Heraclius mobilized a hundred thousand troops together with another hundred thousand men of Lakham, Judham and Balqain.


Page 246

Question 1078. Who assumed leadership after Zaid bin Haritha's death?
Answer 1078. Ja‘far bin Abi Talib assumed leadership after Zaid bin Haritha's death.

Question 1079. Who held up the banner and fought bravely on his horseback?
Answer 1079. Abdullah bin Rawaha held up the banner and fought bravely on his horseback.

Question 1080. How many Muslims were involved in battle against the Byzantines?
Answer 1080. 3,000 Muslims were involved in battle against the Byzantines.

Question 1081. What did Khalid bin Al-Waleed do to cast fear into the hearts of the Byzantines?
Answer 1081. Khalid bin Al-Waleed reshuffled the right and left flanks of the Muslim army and introduced a division from the rear to cast fear into the hearts of the Byzantines.

Question 1082. What was the result of the battle?
Answer 1082. The battle resulted in a far-ranging impact and attached to the Muslims a great reputation in the battlefields. The Muslims managed to retreat back to Madinah with the slightest losses.


Page 247

Question 1083. What is Dhat As-Salasil?
Answer 1083. Dhat As-Salasil is a spot situated ten days’ walk north of Madinah.

Question 1084. Who was chosen to lead the mission to Dhat As-Salasil?
Answer 1084. 'Amr bin Al -'As was chosen to lead the mission to Dhat As-Salasil.

Question 1085. What campaign was carried out in Sha'ban 8 A.H.?
Answer 1085. The Khadrah Campaign was carried out in Sha'ban 8 A.H.

Question 1086. What was the purpose of the Khadrah Campaign?
Answer 1086. The purpose of the Khadrah Campaign was to discipline the outlaws who had been amassing troops outside the domain of Islam.

Question 1087. What other event preceded the Mu’tah Battle?
Answer 1087. The Mu’tah Battle was preceded by several Arabian tribes deciding to profess Islam out of their own free will.


Page 248

Question 1088. How long did it take to teach them a lesson?
Answer 1088. It took fifteen days.

Question 1089. What happened to some of them?
Answer 1089. Some were killed.

Question 1090. What happened to the others?
Answer 1090. Others were captured.

Question 1091. What happened to their property?
Answer 1091. It was confiscated.

Question 1092. What was the lesson?
Answer 1092. An unforgettable lesson.


Page 249

Question 1093. What event did Ibn Al-Qaiyim describe as the greatest one?
Answer 1093. Ibn Al-Qaiyim described the conquest of Makkah as the greatest one by which Allâh honoured His religion, Messenger, soldiers and honest party.

Question 1094. What were the pre-conquest events that led to the conquest of Makkah?
Answer 1094. The pre-conquest events that led to the conquest of Makkah were according to the terms of the treaty of Hudaibiyah, the Arab tribes were given the option to join either of the parties, the Muslims or Quraish, with which they desired to enter into treaty alliance. Banu Bakr then attacked Banu Khuza‘ah in a place called Al-Wateer in Sha‘ban, 8 A.H. with the help of Quraish.

Question 1095. Who was the chief of Banu Bakr?
Answer 1095. The chief of Banu Bakr was Nawfal.

Question 1096. Who did Abu Sufyan approach to intercede on behalf of the Quraish?
Answer 1096. Abu Sufyan approached Abu Bakr, 'Umar, and 'Ali bin Abi Talib to intercede on behalf of the Quraish.

Question 1097. How did Umm Habiba, Abu Sufyan's daughter, respond to her father?
Answer 1097. Umm Habiba responded to her father by saying "It is the Messenger of Allâh’s carpet, and you are an unclean polytheist."


Page 250

Question 1098. What prompted Hatib to write a letter to the Makkans?
Answer 1098. Hatib feared for his family's safety and sought to earn the gratitude of the Makkans by doing good to them.


Page 251

Question 1099. Who was mandated by the Prophet to take care of the affairs of Madinah during the journey to Makkah?
Answer 1099. Abu Ruhm Al - Ghifari was mandated by the Prophet to take care of the affairs of Madinah during the journey to Makkah.

Question 1100. Who advised Abu Sufyan to go and beseech the Prophet for pardon and confess his ill-behaviour?
Answer 1100. ‘Ali advised Abu Sufyan to go and beseech the Prophet for pardon and confess his ill-behaviour.

Question 1101. What did the Prophet suggest to Abu Sufyan?
Answer 1101. The Prophet suggested to Abu Sufyan to bear witness to the Oneness of Allah and Prophethood of Muhammad.

Question 1102. Who went out to reconnoiter before the Muslims arrived at Mar Az - Zahran?
Answer 1102. Abu Sufyan bin Al -Harith and ‘Abdullah bin Omaiyah went out to reconnoiter before the Muslims arrived at Mar Az - Zahran.

Question 1103. What special privilege was given to Abu Sufyan by the Prophet?
Answer 1103. The Prophet gave Abu Sufyan, who had a liking for bragging, a special privilege by saying "He who takes refuge in Abu Sufyan’s house is safe; whosoever confines himself to his house, the inmates thereof shall be in safety, and he who enters the Sacred Mosque is safe."


Page 252

Question 1104. Who did the Prophet appoint to lead the right flank of the army?
Answer 1104. The Prophet appointed Khalid bin Al-Waleed to lead the right flank of the army.

Question 1105. Who was Abu Sufyan's wife?
Answer 1105. Abu Sufyan's wife was Hind bint Utbah.

Question 1106. How many people did Khalid bin Al-Waleed kill upon entering Makkah?
Answer 1106. Khalid bin Al-Waleed killed twelve of the ruffians upon entering Makkah.

Question 1107. Where did Az-Zubair bin 'Awwam plant the banner?
Answer 1107. Az-Zubair bin 'Awwam planted the banner at Al-Fath (conquest) Mosque.

Question 1108. What was the Prophet's response to Sa'd bin 'Ubadah's words?
Answer 1108. The Prophet got angry and said "Nay, today Al-Ka'bah will be sanctified, and Quraish honoured," when Sa'd bin 'Ubadah said "Today will witness the great fight, you cannot seek sanctuary at Al-Ka'bah. Today will witness the humiliation of Quraish."


Page 253

Answer 1108. "And Say: ‘Truth (i.e. Islamic Monotheism or this Qur’ân or Jihâd against polytheists) has come and Batil (falsehood, i.e. Satan or polytheism, etc.) has vanished. Surely! Batil is ever bound to vanish.’"

Answer 1108. He faced the wall opposite the door and there performed devout prostrations, and went around acclaiming Allâh’s Greatness and Oneness.

Answer 1108. He called for ‘Uthman bin Talhah, the janitor of Al-Ka‘bah, from whom he took the key.

Answer 1108. He ordered that all idols be dismantled, images and effigies deleted.

Answer 1108. He said: "There is no god but All âh Alone. He has no associates. He made good His Promise that He held to His slave and helped him and defeated all the Confederates along."


Page 254

Question 1109. What did Yusuf (the Prophet Joseph) say to his brothers?
Answer 1109. Yusuf (the Prophet Joseph) said to his brothers, "No reproach on you this day," go your way, for you are freed ones."

Question 1110. Who was given the job of keeping the door of Al-Ka‘bah and providing water to pilgrims?
Answer 1110. The Prophet ordered that these jobs remain in the hand of ‘Uthm an bin Talhah and that the key will stay with him and his descendants for ever.

Question 1111. Who commented on the new situation when Bilal ascended Al-Ka‘bah and called for prayer?
Answer 1111. 'Itab bin Usaid commented on the new situation when Bilal ascended Al-Ka‘bah and called for prayer.

Question 1112. Who was granted support by the Prophet for sheltering her two Makkan relatives in her house?
Answer 1112. ‘Umm Hani was granted support by the Prophet for sheltering her two Makkan relatives in her house.

Question 1113. Who were pardoned from the nine arch-criminals?
Answer 1113. Only four of the nine arch-criminals were killed, while the others were pardoned for different reasons.


Page 255

Question 1114. Who was pardoned for attempting to assassinate the Prophet?
Answer 1114. Safwan bin Omaiyah and Fudalah bin 'Umair were pardoned for attempting to assassinate the Prophet.

Question 1115. What rule was put in place in regards to fighting in Makkah?
Answer 1115. The Prophet declared that Makkah was a holy land and that no bloodshed was allowed within its walls. Anyone who fought in the city would be punished for breaking this rule.

Question 1116. What did the Prophet do when the tribesmen of Khuza‘ah killed a man from Laith Tribe?
Answer 1116. The Prophet was indignant and ordered Khuza‘ah to stop their pre-Islamic practices. He also gave the family of anyone killed the right to consider either of two options, blood-money or just retribution (the killer is killed).

Question 1117. What did the Makkans do to pledge their allegiance to the Prophet?
Answer 1117. The Makkans came to pledge fealty to the Prophet and the men came first, pledging full obedience in all areas. The women then followed the men's example.

Question 1118. What did the Prophet do when Hind bint ‘Utbah, Abu Sufyan’s wife, came in the trail of women?
Answer 1118. The Prophet accepted their allegiance on condition that they associate none with Allâh, to which they immediately agreed. He then added that they should not practise theft. Hind complained that her husband was tight-fisted, to which her husband offered all his worldly possessions to her. The Prophet laughed and said "Fear Allah and be kind to each other. I witness that you all are free." He then accepted their allegiance.


Page 256

Question 1119. What did the Prophet order Abu Usaid Al-Khuza‘i to do?
Answer 1119. The Prophet ordered Abu Usaid Al-Khuza‘i to restore the pillars of the Holy Sanctuary.

Question 1120. How did the Prophet respond when news of Khalid bin Al -Waleed's bloodshed reached him?
Answer 1120. The Prophet was deeply grieved and raised his hands towards the heaven, uttering words of solace :" O Allâh ! I am innocent of what Khalid had done."

Question 1121. What did the Prophet forbid the woman he recognized to do?
Answer 1121. The Prophet forbade the woman he recognized to commit adultery, infanticide or forge falsehood.

Question 1122. What did Khalid bin Al -Waleed do when he was sent to a spot called Nakhlah?
Answer 1122. When Khalid bin Al -Waleed was sent to a spot called Nakhlah, he exterminated it and saw a black woman, naked with torn hair, who he struck with his sword into two parts.

Question 1123. What did the Prophet send Sa‘d bin Zaid Al -Ashhali to do?
Answer 1123. The Prophet sent Sa‘d bin Zaid Al -Ashhali to destroy an idol, Manat, venerated by both Al -Aws and Al-Khazraj tribes.


Page 257

Question 1124. Who did the Prophet of Allah send to make reparations for Khalid's wrongdoings?
Answer 1124. The Prophet of Allah sent 'Ali to make reparations for Khalid's wrongdoings.

Question 1125. What was the total number of the Muslim army before the Ghazwah?
Answer 1125. The total number of the Muslim army before the Ghazwah was 3000.

Question 1126. What was the result of the decisive battle between the Muslims and the idolaters?
Answer 1126. The result of the decisive battle between the Muslims and the idolaters was the extermination of paganism once and for all.

Question 1127. What did the Prophet of Allah say to Khalid when he heard the altercation between Khalid and 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Awf?
Answer 1127. When the Prophet of Allah heard the altercation between Khalid and 'Abdur Rahman bin 'Awf, he told Khalid to stop the altercation and said that his Companions were too high in rank to be involved in such arguments.

Question 1128. What did the Prophet of Allah proclaim when he said "O Allâh! I am innocent of what Khalid has done," twice?
Answer 1128. When the Prophet of Allah said "O Allâh! I am innocent of what Khalid has done," twice, he was proclaiming his innocence and innocence of the actions of Khalid.


Page 258

Question 1129. What were the results of the call to Islam?
Answer 1129. The results of the call to Islam were the consequences of long-timed holy fights in the way of Allâh (Jihad), troubles, toil, disturbances, trials and a lot of bloody conflicts and battles.

Question 1130. What was the most significant result of the call to Islam?
Answer 1130. The most significant result of the call to Islam was the conquest of Makkah, which altered the Arabs’ whole life and eliminated paganism in the Arabian Peninsula.

Question 1131. What were the two phases of the third stage in the life of the Messenger?
Answer 1131. The two phases of the third stage in the life of the Messenger were holy wars and fighting, and the tribes and people’s race to embrace Islam.

Question 1132. Who decided to march and fight the Muslims?
Answer 1132. Malik bin ‘Awf An-Nasri decided to march and fight the Muslims.

Question 1133. Where did the enemy march and encamp?
Answer 1133. The enemy marched and encamped at Awtas, which is a valley in Hawazin land and is quite near Hunain.


Page 259

Answer 1133. Duraid bin As-Simmah asked "What valley are we in?".

Answer 1133. Malik bin ‘Awf had people bring their women, properties, and children with them so that they fight fiercely to protect them.

Answer 1133. The spies sent by the Messenger of Allâh to spy Muslim forces were Malik's spies.

Answer 1133. The Messenger of Allâh borrowed a hundred armours with their helmets and two thousand spears, arrows, and bunlocks.

Answer 1133. The Messenger of Allâh left Makkah on Shawwal, the nineteenth, the captive day.


Page 260

Question 1134. Who was appointed governor over Makkah?
Answer 1134. 'Itab bin Usaid was appointed governor over Makkah.

Question 1135. What did the Messenger of Allah say about Hawazin when informed about them?
Answer 1135. The Messenger of Allah said that they would become Muslims' spoils the following day if Allah willed it.

Question 1136. What was the name of the great green plant the Muslim army encountered on their way to Hunain?
Answer 1136. The great green plant was called Dhat- Anwat (the one with suspenders).

Question 1137. What did some of the army members ask the Messenger of Allah to make for them?
Answer 1137. Some of the army members asked the Messenger of Allah to make them a Nabk with suspenders like the one they encountered.

Question 1138. What did the Muslims encounter when they descended into the valley?
Answer 1138. When the Muslims descended into the valley, they encountered arrows showering on them and a fierce attack from the enemy.


Page 261

Question 1139. Who were the first to be called out upon when the Prophet (pbuh) returned to the battlefield?
Answer 1139. The first to be called out upon when the Prophet (pbuh) returned to the battlefield were the lancers.

Question 1140. What did Al-'Abbas shout to call out upon the followers?
Answer 1140. Al-'Abbas shouted "Where are the lancers?" to call out upon the followers.

Question 1141. What happened when the Prophet (pbuh) hurled a handful of earth at their faces?
Answer 1141. When the Prophet (pbuh) hurled a handful of earth at their faces, their eyes became thick with dust and the enemy began to retreat in utter confusion.

Question 1142. What happened to the Muslims following the Prophet's (pbuh) return to the battlefield?
Answer 1142. Following the Prophet's (pbuh) return to the battlefield, the Muslims plundered all the riding camels, weapons, and cattle of Thaqif and the enemy was shatteringly defeated.

Question 1143. How did Allah show the sudden change following the Prophet's (pbuh) return to the battlefield?
Answer 1143. Allah alluded to the sudden change following the Prophet's (pbuh) return to the battlefield in the Qur'an when He said, "...and on the Day of Hunain (battle) when you rejoiced at your great number but it availed you naught and the earth, vast as it is, was straitened for you, then you turned back in flight. Then Allâh did send down His Sakinah (calmness, tranquillity, and reassurance, etc.) on the Messenger (Muhammad), and on the believers, and sent down forces (angels) which you see not, and punished the disbelievers. Such is the recompense of the disbelievers." (Qur’ân 9:25-26).


Page 262

Question 1144. What was the purpose of the Ta'if Campaign?
Answer 1144. The purpose of the Ta'if Campaign was to face the defeated idolaters and to collect the booty of six thousand captives, twenty four thousand camels; over forty thousand sheep and four thousand silver ounces.

Question 1145. Who led the Muslims in the pursuit of the enemy troops?
Answer 1145. The Muslims in the pursuit of the enemy troops were headed by Abu 'Amir Al-Ash'ari.

Question 1146. How long did the siege of Ta'if last?
Answer 1146. The siege of Ta'if lasted between 10-20 days.

Question 1147. What weapons did the defenders of Ta'if use during the siege?
Answer 1147. The defenders of Ta'if used arrows and rocks during the siege.

Question 1148. What was the outcome of the Ta'if Campaign?
Answer 1148. The outcome of the Ta'if Campaign was that a gap was made in the castle wall and the Muslims managed to collect the booty of six thousand captives, twenty four thousand camels; over forty thousand sheep and four thousand silver ounces before leaving.


Page 263

Question 1149. What did the Prophet do to force the enemy to surrender?
Answer 1149. The Prophet tended to a war policy of burning and cutting the enemy’s crops.

Question 1150. How did Abu Bakrah get out of the siege?
Answer 1150. Abu Bakrah tied himself to a wall and let himself down by means of a small wheel, that would normally be used for drawing up water from a well.

Question 1151. What did the Prophet do to show mercy to the enemy?
Answer 1151. The Prophet agreed to have mercy on them for the sake of Allâh and out of kinship motives and called out that "He whosoever descends and steps out of the castle is free."

Question 1152. How did the Prophet react to Thaqif?
Answer 1152. The Prophet said: "O Allâh, guide Thaqif and bring them to us as Muslims."

Question 1153. What was the reason for the delay of the booty distribution?
Answer 1153. The delay of the booty distribution was due to the Prophet’s hope that Hawazin’s delegation might arrive and announce their repentance and consequently reclaim their loss.


Page 264

Question 1154. Who was given the greatest number of shares in the booty from the Hunain battle?
Answer 1154. Abu Sufyan bin Harb, Hakeem bin Hizam, Safwan bin Omaiyah, Al-Harith bin Harith bin Kilda, and other chiefs of Quraish and other clans were given the greatest number of shares in the booty.

Question 1155. What did the Prophet do when the bedouins gathered around him expecting to be given some wealth?
Answer 1155. The Prophet said, “If I had as many numerous camels as the number of Tihama trees, I would distribute them among you.”

Question 1156. How were the people distributed the booty from the Hunain battle?
Answer 1156. The booty was distributed based on a wise policy. A footman’s share was four camels and forty sheep, and a horseman would take twelve camels and a hundred and twenty sheep.

Question 1157. How did the Helpers react when they were deprived of Hunain gifts?
Answer 1157. The Helpers felt uneasy and a lot of ill-statements against the Prophet were spread among them.

Question 1158. What did the Prophet say when the people were demanding more wealth?
Answer 1158. The Prophet said, “O people, I swear by Allâh that I get nothing but one -fifth of your booty, and this very fifth goes back to you.”


Page 265

Question 1159. Who was the Messenger of Allah?
Answer 1159. The Messenger of Allah was Muhammad.

Question 1160. Who was Sa'd bin 'Ubadah?
Answer 1160. Sa'd bin 'Ubadah was a member of the Helpers group.

Question 1161. What did the Prophet ask Sa'd when he first arrived?
Answer 1161. The Prophet asked Sa'd what he thought about the distribution of the booty.

Question 1162. What did the Prophet say to the Helpers when they were all gathered?
Answer 1162. The Prophet said to the Helpers, "What prevents you from replying to the Messenger of Allâh, O tribe of Helpers?"

Question 1163. How did the Helpers respond to the Prophet?
Answer 1163. The Helpers said, "Yes, we are satisfied, O Prophet of Allâh ( )! with our lot and share."


Page 266

Question 1164. Who was leading the Hawazin delegation?
Answer 1164. Zuhair bin Sard was leading the Hawazin delegation.

Question 1165. How many people were in the Hawazin delegation?
Answer 1165. There were fourteen people in the Hawazin delegation.

Question 1166. What did the Prophet Muhammad ask the Hawazin delegation?
Answer 1166. The Prophet Muhammad asked the Hawazin delegation which was dearer to them, their wealth or their women and children.

Question 1167. What happened when the Prophet Muhammad performed the noon prayer?
Answer 1167. When the Prophet Muhammad performed the noon prayer, the delegation stood up and asked the believers to exhort the Prophet to forego the captives of their people.

Question 1168. Who refused to grant any of the spoils to the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 1168. Al-Aqra' bin Habis, 'Uyaina bin Hisn, and Al-'Abbas bin Mirdas refused to grant any of the spoils to the Prophet Muhammad.


Page 267

Question 1169. Who welcomed the Prophet Muhammad when he first entered Madinah?
Answer 1169. The people of Madinah welcomed him.

Question 1170. What did the people of Madinah do for him out of love and respect?
Answer 1170. They gave him residence and aided him and embraced the light of Islam.

Question 1171. What had Makkah become when the Prophet Muhammad returned to Madinah?
Answer 1171. Makkah had become in his hands and at his disposal and had gotten rid of its pride and Jahiliyah.

Question 1172. How did the Messenger of Allâh respond to the people of Makkah?
Answer 1172. He forgave all the errors and wrongs of its people.

Question 1173. What does the Quran say about those who obey Allah and show patience?
Answer 1173. The Quran states that "Verily, he who fears Allâh with obedience to Him (by abstaining from sins and evil deeds, and by performing righteous good deeds), and is patient, then surely, Allâh makes not the reward of the good -doers to be lost."


Page 268

Question 1174. Who did the Messenger of Allah send agents to when he returned to Madinah?
Answer 1174. The Messenger of Allah dispatched agents to the tribes of Arabia after returning to Madinah.

Question 1175. How many horsemen were in 'Uyaina bin Hisn Al-Fazari's platoon?
Answer 1175. 'Uyaina bin Hisn Al-Fazari's platoon consisted of fifty horsemen.

Question 1176. What was dispatched to Bani Ka'b?
Answer 1176. Basheer bin Sufyan was dispatched to Bani Ka'b.

Question 1177. What was the purpose of 'Ali bin Abi Talib's mission to Najran?
Answer 1177. 'Ali bin Abi Talib's mission to Najran was to collect Sadaqa & Jizya.

Question 1178. What action was taken to ensure security in the lands of Arabia?
Answer 1178. After the conquest of Makkah, platoons were dispatched to all areas of Arabia to ensure security.


Page 269

Question 1179. Who was Dahhak bin Sufyan Al Kilabi?
Answer 1179. Dahhak bin Sufyan Al Kilabi was a mission sent by the Messenger of Allâh to call Bani Kilab to embrace Islam.

Question 1180. What was 'Alqamah bin Mujazziz Al-Mudlaji's mission?
Answer 1180. 'Alqamah bin Mujazziz Al-Mudlaji's mission was to fight against some men from Abyssinia (Ethiopia) near the shores of Jeddah.

Question 1181. What was the year of the mission of Dahhak bin Sufyan Al-Kilabi?
Answer 1181. The mission of Dahhak bin Sufyan Al-Kilabi was in Rabi‘ Al-Awwal in the year 9 A.H.

Question 1182. Who was 'Uyaina bin Hisn?
Answer 1182. 'Uyaina bin Hisn was an expedition dispatched by the Prophet to fight against the Bani Tamim who had stopped paying tribute to the Prophet.

Question 1183. How many men and women did 'Uyaina bin Hisn capture?
Answer 1183. 'Uyaina bin Hisn captured 11 men, 21 women, and 30 boys.


Page 270

Question 1184. What did the sister of 'Adi bin Hatim beg the Messenger of Allâh for?
Answer 1184. She begged the Messenger of Allâh for mercy and to be beneficent to her.

Question 1185. What did the man that was beside the Prophet suggest 'Adi's sister to ask the Prophet for?
Answer 1185. He suggested that she ask for an animal to ride on.

Question 1186. What did the Messenger of Allâh ask ‘Adi when he sat in front of him?
Answer 1186. The Messenger of Allâh asked him if he had fled from Allâh and his Messenger, if he knew any other god but Allâh, and if he knew anyone who was greater than Allâh.

Question 1187. What did the Prophet say the Jews and Christians were?
Answer 1187. He said the Jews were those whose portion is wrath, and the Christians were those who have gone astray.

Question 1188. What did ‘Adi say after the Prophet asked if he had fled from Allâh and his Messenger?
Answer 1188. He said "No" and proclaimed with a joyous face that he was a Muslim and believed in one God (Allâh).


Page 271

Answer 1188. The man was complaining about poverty and highway robbery.

Answer 1188. The Prophet said that if 'Adi were doomed to live a long life, he would be able to see a riding camel woman travel from Al-Hirah to Al-Ka'bah and would be able to open the treasures of Kisra.

Answer 1188. 'Adi said that the Prophet's prophecies had come true, as he had seen a riding camel woman travel from Al-Hirah to Al-Ka'bah and had opened the treasures of Kisra.

Answer 1188. Al-Bukhari was the narrator of this Hadith.

Answer 1188. The Prophet said that if one were to live long enough, they would witness others offering a handful of gold or silver, but no one accepted it.


Page 272

Question 1189. Who killed the ambassador of the Prophet?
Answer 1189. Sharhabeel bin ‘Amr Al -Ghassani killed the ambassador of the Prophet.

Question 1190. What was the name of the Messenger of Allâh's ambassador?
Answer 1190. The Messenger of Allâh's ambassador was Al -Harith bin ‘Umair Al -Azdi.

Question 1191. What was the reason for the Byzantine power's opposition to Muslims?
Answer 1191. The reason for the Byzantine power's opposition to Muslims was that Caesar realized the progressive danger threatening his borders and concluded that demolition of the Muslims power had grown an urgent necessity.

Question 1192. What was the name of the battle Muslims fought against the Byzantines?
Answer 1192. Muslims fought against the Byzantines at the battle of Mu’tah.

Question 1193. What did the Companions of the Messenger of Allâh think when the Prophet deserted his wives for a month?
Answer 1193. The Companions of the Messenger of Allâh thought the Prophet had concealed some kind of a mystical affair the knowledge of which was meant for himself only.


Page 273

Question 1194. What news about the Byzantine and Ghassanide was brought to the Muslims?
Answer 1194. The Nabateans who brought oil from Ash-Sham to Madinah brought news about Heraclius' preparations and equipment of an enormous army counting over forty thousand fighters besides Lukeham, Judham and other tribes allied to the Byzantines.

Question 1195. What was the Messenger of Allah's concept and estimation of the situation and its development?
Answer 1195. The Messenger of Allah thought that if he tarried or dealt passively with the situation in such a way that might enable the enemy a chance to get ready in earnest and attack the Muslims, their situation would become much more difficult and their morale would be affected to a great degree.

Question 1196. What caused the Messenger of Allah to be grieved, disturbed and upset?
Answer 1196. The Messenger of Allah had recently divorced his wives, which was why he was grieved, disturbed and upset.

Question 1197. What did the hypocrites do to show the seriousness of the situation?
Answer 1197. The seriousness of the situation was confirmed to a large degree by the hypocrites' behaviour, when news about the Byzantines' preparations reached Madinah. They used to harbour evil and ill-intentions against the whole process of Islam and the Muslims.

Question 1198. What was the name of the 'hotbed of conspiracy and intrigue' erected by the hypocrites?
Answer 1198. The hypocrites erected a hotbed of conspiracy and intrigue in the form of a mosque called Masjid-e-Darar (the Mosque of Harm).


Page 274

Question 1199. What was the Prophet's intention of the invasion against the Byzantines?
Answer 1199. The Prophet's intention was to thwart any Roman attempt to approach the land of Islam and to spread Islam.

Question 1200. What did the Prophet do in order to announce his intention of war against the Byzantines?
Answer 1200. The Prophet announced his intention openly and cleared the situation to his people so that they would get ready.

Question 1201. What did Uthman do to help the invasion?
Answer 1201. Uthman provided two hundred saddled camels for the invasion and presented two hundred ounces (of gold) as charity. He also fetched a thousand dinars and cast them all into the lap of the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1202. How did many Muslims respond to the Prophet's call to fight the Byzantines?
Answer 1202. Almost all the Muslims responded positively and with great speed began getting ready for war. Tribes and phratries from here and there began pouring in Madinah.

Question 1203. How did the Messenger of Allâh motivate the Muslims to fight against the Byzantines?
Answer 1203. The Messenger of Allâh motivated the Muslims to fight against the Byzantines by urging them to steadfastness and stamina, and urging them to pay charities and to spend the best of their fortunes in the way of Allâh.


Page 275

Question 1204. How many fighters were in the army of Islam?
Answer 1204. The army that numbered thirty thousand fighters.

Question 1205. Who did the Prophet entrust his family’s safety and affairs to?
Answer 1205. The Prophet entrusted his family's safety and affairs to 'Ali bin Abu Talib.

Question 1206. How did some members of the army cope with lack of provisions?
Answer 1206. Some members of the army had to eat the leaves of trees till their lips got swollen and some others had to slaughter camels so they could drink the water of their stomach.

Question 1207. Who offered ninety camel-burdens of dates?
Answer 1207. Asim bin 'Adi offered ninety camel-burdens of dates.

Question 1208. What did the Prophet forbid the Muslims from drinking when they passed by Al-Hijr?
Answer 1208. The Prophet forbade the Muslims from drinking the water of the well at Al-Hijr and performing the ablution with it.


Page 276

Question 1209. Who did the Prophet supplicate for water for the Muslim army?
Answer 1209. The Prophet supplicated Allâh for water for the Muslim army.


Page 277

Question 1210. Who was Yahna bin Rawbah?
Answer 1210. Yahna bin Rawbah was a person given a guarantee letter by the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1211. What kind of guarantee letter did the Messenger of Allâh give to Yahna bin Rawbah?
Answer 1211. The Messenger of Allâh gave Yahna bin Rawbah a guarantee letter in which he said, "In the Name of Allâh, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful. This is a guarantee of protection from Allâh and Muhammad the Prophet, the Messenger of Allâh, to Yahna bin Rawbah and the people of Ailah."

Question 1212. How did the Messenger of Allâh discipline ‘Ukaidir Dumat Al -Jandal?
Answer 1212. The Messenger of Allâh dispatched Khalid bin Al -Waleed to ‘Ukaidir Dumat Al -Jandal, captured him, and made a peace with him for the payment of two thousand camels, eight hundred heads of cattle, four hundred armours and four hundred lances. He obliged him to recognize the duty of paying tribute and charged him with collecting it from Dumat, Tabuk, Ailah and Taima’.

Question 1213. What happened when the Muslim army returned from Tabuk?
Answer 1213. When the Muslim army returned from Tabuk, they returned victoriously, undeceived or wronged. As they were moving along, twelve hypocrites sought the Prophet’s life and Hudhaifa struck their mounts’ faces with a crook in his hand and Allâh cast fear into their hearts.

Question 1214. Who was with the Messenger of Allâh when twelve hypocrites sought his life?
Answer 1214. When twelve hypocrites sought the Prophet’s life, he was with Ammar holding the rein of his she-camel and Hudhaifa bin Al -Yaman driving it.


Page 278

Question 1215. What was Hudhaifa called?
Answer 1215. Hudhaifa was called the "confidant" of the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1216. What did the Messenger of Allâh say when Madinah loomed at the horizon?
Answer 1216. The Messenger of Allâh said, "This is a cheerful sight. This is Uhud, which is a mountain, we like it and it likes us."

Question 1217. What did the Madinese do when they learnt of the arrival of the army?
Answer 1217. The Madinese set out to meet the army. Women, youths, youngsters and small children went out of town to celebrate their home-return wholeheartedly singing.

Question 1218. How long did the Tabuk Invasion last?
Answer 1218. The Tabuk Invasion lasted fifty days, twenty days of which were spent in Tabuk and the others on the way to and fro.

Question 1219. What did the Prophet say when the hypocrites who had stayed behind came and offered various kinds of excuses?
Answer 1219. The Prophet acknowledged their excuses and invoked Allâh’s forgiveness for them but he entrusted their inner thoughts and Faith to Allâh.


Page 279

Question 1220. Who were the three faithful believers mentioned in the text?
Answer 1220. Ka‘b bin Malik, Murara bin Ar -Rabi‘, and Hilal bin  Omaiyah.

Question 1221. What did the Messenger of Allah bid his Companions to do in regards to the three faithful believers?
Answer 1221. The Messenger of Allah bade his Companions not to talk to them.

Question 1222. How long did the boycott last?
Answer 1222. The boycott lasted for over forty days.

Question 1223. What did Allah say about those who were left behind due to serious excuses?
Answer 1223. Allah said that there is no blame on those who are weak or ill or who find no resources to spend, if they are sincere (in duty) to Allâh and His Messenger.

Question 1224. What was the effect of the Invasion of Tabuk?
Answer 1224. The effect of the Invasion of Tabuk was extending and confirming the Muslims’ influence and domination on the Arabian Peninsula and it caused the remainders of Jahiliyin and hypocrites to lose their expectations and desires of ever reclaiming their ex-influence.


Page 280

Question 1225. What was the result of the Tabuk invasion?
Answer 1225. The result of the Tabuk invasion was the great impact it produced, seen in the large number of delegations that visited the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1226. What events occurred in the year of Tabuk?
Answer 1226. The events that occured in the year of Tabuk include the sworn allegation of infidelity between ‘Uwaimir Al -‘Ajlani and his wife, the pelting of a woman who confessed committing adultery with stones, the death of Negus Ashama, the death of Umm Kulthum, the daughter of the Prophet, and the death of ‘Abdullah bin Abi Salool, the head of the hypocrites.

Question 1227. What Qur'anic verses were sent down in the wake of the Tabuk event?
Answer 1227. Qur'anic verses sent down in the wake of the Tabuk event covered the immanent circumstances of the battle, exposure of the hypocrites, the prerogatives and special rank earmarked for the strivers in the cause of Allâh, acceptance of the repentance of the truthful believers who slackened and those who hung back, etc.

Question 1228. What did the Prophet do when Negus Ashama died?
Answer 1228. When Negus Ashama died, the Prophet performed prayer in absentia for him.

Question 1229. What did the Prophet do for 'Abdullah bin Abi Salool after his death?
Answer 1229. After 'Abdullah bin Abi Salool's death, the Messenger of Allâh asked Allâ h’s forgiveness for him. He also prayed for him in spite of ‘Umar’s disapproval and his attempt to prevent him from doing that. Later on a Qur’ânic verse was revealed attesting to ‘Umar’s right viewpoint.


Page 281

Question 1230. Who was appointed to lead the Muslims in performing the pilgrimage rituals?
Answer 1230. Abu Bakr was appointed to lead the Muslims in performing the pilgrimage rituals.

Question 1231. At which spot was the announcement of freedom from obligation proclaimed?
Answer 1231. The announcement of freedom from obligation was proclaimed at Al-Jamrah.

Question 1232. What communication went in line with Arabian traditions?
Answer 1232. Communication of a change relating to declining conventions of blood and fortunes went in line with Arabian traditions.

Question 1233. What did Abu Bakr inquire of Ali bin Abi Talib?
Answer 1233. Abu Bakr inquired whether the Prophet had put him in command or he had just been commissioned to make the announcement.

Question 1234. What was vetoed from Arabia by the proclamation?
Answer 1234. The proclamation vetoed all aspects of paganism from Arabia.


Page 282

Question 1235. Who was the greatest military leader in the world?
Answer 1235. The Prophet was the greatest military leader in the world.

Question 1236. How did the Prophet manage to turn Muslim defeats into victories?
Answer 1236. The Prophet used his "super wisdom" to turn Muslim defeats into victories.

Question 1237. What were pre-Islamic wars focused on?
Answer 1237. Pre-Islamic wars were focused on winning, rather than justice.

Question 1238. What did the Prophet encourage Muslims to fight for?
Answer 1238. The Prophet encouraged Muslims to fight for justice, not to invade and attack without cause.

Question 1239. What did the Prophet do to help refugees?
Answer 1239. The Prophet made inquiries about the refugee problems, providing them with houses, fortunes, and other provisions.


Page 283

Question 1240. What is the difference between Islamic wars and pre-Islamic wars?
Answer 1240. Islamic wars are different from pre-Islamic wars in that they are considered a noble, sacred fight in the way of Allâh for the verification of a Muslim society that seeks to free man from oppression, tyranny and aggression.

Question 1241. What were the rules issued by the Messenger of Allah regarding war?
Answer 1241. The Messenger of Allah issued honourable strict rules about war, including to fear Allah, be good to all Muslims, fight those who disbelieve in Allah, do not exaggerate nor commit treachery, never deform the corpse of a dead person or kill an infant child, do not harm those who seek protection, and do not kill a wounded person nor run after a fleeing one or kill a captive.

Question 1242. What was the aim of war in Islam?
Answer 1242. The aim of war in Islam is to free man from the aggression, the oppression and the tyranny of men of power, and to spread security, safety, mercy and compassion as well as observing the rights and magnanimity.

Question 1243. What was forbidden in the pre-Islamic war environment?
Answer 1243. Pre-Islamic wars were so hard upon the weakling that they had to invoke Allâh to enable them to get away from that pre-Islamic environment. War was a means by which they can rape or unveil women, practise cruelty against the weakling, the babies and small children, spoil tillage and race, and spread corruption on the earth.

Question 1244. What were the punishments issued by the Messenger of Allah for breaking the rules of war?
Answer 1244. The Messenger of Allah forbade breaking the rules of war under any circumstances and the punishments for breaking the rules have not been specified.


Page 284

Question 1245. What is the consequence of killing someone under a covenant?
Answer 1245. The person who commits this act will not be allowed entry into Paradise.

Question 1246. How far away can the smell of Paradise be experienced?
Answer 1246. Forty years.

Question 1247. What did the noble rules do to wars?
Answer 1247. They purified wars from their pre-Islamic filthiness and turned them into sacred wars.

Question 1248. What is Al-Jahiliyah?
Answer 1248. Al-Jahiliyah is the pre-Islamic period.

Question 1249. What kind of wars were practiced in the pre-Islamic period?
Answer 1249. Wars in the pre-Islamic period were considered filthiness.


Page 285

Question 1250. What event marked the end of paganism?
Answer 1250. The invasion and conquest of Makkah marked the end of paganism.

Question 1251. How did the Arabs respond to the conquest of Makkah?
Answer 1251. The Arabs raced to embrace Islam.

Question 1252. How many fighters were in the Muslim army during the Tabuk invasion?
Answer 1252. The Muslim army during the Tabuk invasion had thirty thousand fighters.

Question 1253. How many pilgrims shared in Hajjatul-Wada'?
Answer 1253. One hundred thousand or one hundred and forty four thousand pilgrims shared in Hajjatul-Wada'.

Question 1254. What did the pilgrims say when they arrived in Madinah?
Answer 1254. The pilgrims said "Labbaik" (i.e. Lord, here we are worshipping), glorifying and magnifying Allâh, and thanking Him.


Page 286

Answer 1254. Al-Jarud bin Al-‘Alâ’ Al-‘Abdi was a member of the 'Abdul Qais delegation. He was a Christian but turned to be a good Muslim who arrived in Madinah in the Year of Delegations with forty men.


Page 287

Question 1255. What event caused Ziyad bin Al-Harith As-Sudâ’i to come to the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 1255. Ziyad bin Al-Harith As-Sudâ’i learned of the mission that comprised four hundred Muslims staying at the starting point of a canal, so he came to the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1256. What did the Messenger of Allâh do when Ka‘b bin Zuhair approached him as a repentant Muslim?
Answer 1256. The Messenger of Allâh said, "Yes," and put his hand in his. He had never seen Ka‘b before, but did not recognise him and allowed him to be secure and forgiven.

Question 1257. Who was a part of the 'Udharah Delegation?
Answer 1257. The 'Udharah Delegation consisted of twelve men, one of whom was Hamza bin An-Nu‘man.

Question 1258. How did the Messenger of Allâh respond when the 'Udharah Delegation arrived in Madinah?
Answer 1258. The Messenger of Allâh welcomed them and gave good tidings to them, forbidding them from consulting a soothsayer and from eating the slain animals they had in their pack.

Question 1259. What did Ka‘b bin Zuhair do when the Messenger of Allâh allowed him to be secure and forgiven?
Answer 1259. Ka‘b bin Zuhair then recited his well-known poem "Su‘ad appeared..." in which he praised the Prophet, thanked him and apologized for the wrongs he had done. He acknowledged Muhammad’s mission.


Page 288

Question 1260. Who were the Bali Delegation?
Answer 1260. The Bali Delegation were a group of people who arrived in Rabi‘ Al -Awwal, the ninth year of Al - Hijra and embraced Islam, staying in Madinah for three days.

Question 1261. What did the Prophet say when Abu Ad-Dabeeb asked if hospitality was rewarded by Allah?
Answer 1261. The Prophet said that hospitality was rewarded by Allah, as well as any charity offered to the poor or rich people that is Sadaqah.

Question 1262. What year did the Thaqif delegation come to Madinah?
Answer 1262. The Thaqif delegation came to Madinah in Ramadan, the ninth year of Al -Hijra, after the return of the Prophet from Tabuk.

Question 1263. What did the Thaqif delegation ask of the Prophet?
Answer 1263. The Thaqif delegation asked the Prophet to enter into a peace treaty between him and Thaqif by which they would be allowed to commit fornication, drink wine and deal with usury, not to injure their tyrant idol "Al - Lat" or to oblige them to perform the prayer and that the demolition of Al -Lat should be dealt with and handled by the Messenger of Allâh whereas Thaqif would take care of the other idols.

Question 1264. What happened to 'Urwah bin Mas‘ud Ath -Thaqafi after he called his people to embrace Islam?
Answer 1264. When 'Urwah bin Mas‘ud Ath -Thaqafi called his people to embrace Islam, they shot arrows at him from everywhere and killed him.


Page 289

Question 1265. What did 'Uthman bin Abi Al -‘As do when the Yemeni delegates would visit the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 1265. 'Uthman bin Abi Al -‘As would stay behind with the camels and things to keep an eye on, but at noon when the delegates would come back and sleep, he would go to the Messenger of Allâh in order to learn the Qur’ân and inquire about religious matters.

Question 1266. What did the Yemeni delegates do when they returned home?
Answer 1266. The Yemeni delegates pretended to be grieved and depressed and claimed that the Messenger of Allâh demanded they should embrace Islam, in order to conceal the truth and make their people expect a fight.

Question 1267. Who led the demolition of the idol called "Al - Lat"?
Answer 1267. Khalid bin Al -Waleed was appointed by the Messenger of Allâh to lead the demolition of the idol called "Al - Lat".

Question 1268. Who distributed the jewels and garments of Al -Lat after it was demolished?
Answer 1268. The Messenger of Allâh distributed the jewels and garments of Al -Lat after it was demolished.

Question 1269. What was the message of the Yemeni kings?
Answer 1269. The message of the Yemeni kings was to acknowledge the prophethood and Islam of the Messenger of Allâh and pledge their allegiance to him.


Page 290

Question 1270. What was the purpose of the Hamdan Delegation?
Answer 1270. The purpose of the Hamdan Delegation was to inform the Prophet about their embracing Islam and their parting with polytheism.

Question 1271. Who was Malik bin Murrah Ar-Rahawi?
Answer 1271. Malik bin Murrah Ar-Rahawi was the messenger sent by the delegation from Hamdan.

Question 1272. Who was appointed as the chief of Bani Fazarah?
Answer 1272. Malik bin An-Namt was appointed as the chief of Bani Fazarah.

Question 1273. How many villages were in Najran?
Answer 1273. Najran consisted of seventy three villages.

Question 1274. Who was Al-'Aqib of Najran?
Answer 1274. Al-'Aqib of Najran was 'Abdul Maseeh, who was in charge of princehood and government affairs.


Page 291

Answer 1274. el bin  Uqail bin Adi bin Rabiee bin Tha’laba bin Baghid bin ‘Amr bin Ka’b bin  Sa’ad bin Zaid bin ‘Omran bin Ka’b bin Loiy bin Ghaleb bin Fihr bin  Malik bin An-Nadhr bin Kinanah bin Khuzaima bin Mudrika bin Ilyas bin  Mudar bin Nizar bin Ma’de bin Adnan.

Answer 1274. Musailima bin Thumamah bin Kabeer bin Habeeb bin Al -Aqeel bin Uqail bin Adi bin Rabiee bin Tha’laba bin Baghid bin ‘Amr bin Ka’b bin Sa’ad bin Zaid bin ‘Omran bin Ka’b bin Loiy bin Ghaleb bin Fihr bin Malik bin An-Nadhr bin Kinanah bin Khuzaima bin Mudrika bin Ilyas bin Mudar bin Nizar bin Ma’de bin Adnan.

Answer 1274. The Prophet suggested Al-Mubahala, which is each party should supplicate and implore Allâh to send His Curse upon him or them if they were telling lies.

Answer 1274. The Prophet came forward wrapping Al - Hasan and Al -Husain under his garment while Fatimah was walking at his back.

Answer 1274. After Al-Mubahala was suggested and the Prophet was serious about facing them, they agreed to pay Al-Jizya (i.e. tribute) and the Prophet made peace with them for the provision of two thousand garments, one thousand of them to be delivered in Rajab, the other thousand ones in Safar.

Answer 1274. By paying Al-Jizya, Bani Haneefa Delegation had the covenant of Allâh and His Messenger to practice their religious affairs freely.


Page 292

Question 1275. Who was Musailima?
Answer 1275. Musailima was a liar who declared his Islamization to the Prophet and attempted to be his successor.

Question 1276. How did the Prophet respond to Musailima?
Answer 1276. The Prophet initially attempted to be cordial to Musailima, but eventually realized he was one of the two liars from his dream and replied to him with a piece of palm leaf.

Question 1277. Why did Musailima become so prominent among his people?
Answer 1277. Musailima became prominent because he allowed his people to do things such as drink wine and commit adultery, and wrote to the Prophet claiming he was an associate.

Question 1278. What did the two messengers of Musailima say to the Prophet?
Answer 1278. The two messengers of Musailima said they had faith in Musailima and came to the Prophet because he had informed them of his attributes and the description of his back.

Question 1279. What was the Prophet's reply to Musailima?
Answer 1279. The Prophet's reply to Musailima was a letter that said "Verily, the earth is Allâh’s. He gives it as a heritage to whom He will of His slaves, and the (blessed) end is for the Muttaqûn (pious)."


Page 293

Question 1280. Who was the first person to claim to be a prophet?
Answer 1280. Musailima was the first person to claim to be a prophet.

Question 1281. Who killed Musailima?
Answer 1281. Wahshi killed Musailima.

Question 1282. Who double crossed the group of Ma'una Well?
Answer 1282. 'Amir bin At-Tufail double crossed the group of Ma'una Well.

Question 1283. What did Tujeeb Delegation ask the Prophet?
Answer 1283. Tujeeb Delegation asked the Prophet about the Qur’ân and Sunnah so that they could learn them.

Question 1284. What did the young man ask the Prophet?
Answer 1284. The young man asked the Prophet to invoke Allâh, the Great and All-Mighty for him, to forgive him and have mercy on him, and to make his heart a means of sustenance for his family.


Page 294

Question 1285. What year did the Farewell Pilgrimage occur in?
Answer 1285. The Farewell Pilgrimage occurred in the tenth year of Al -Hijra.

Question 1286. What group of delegates did Zaid Al -Khail belong to?
Answer 1286. Zaid Al -Khail belonged to one of the groups of delegates that came to meet the Prophet.

Question 1287. How was Zaid Al -Khail described by the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 1287. The Messenger of Allâh said that the Arabs were never exact at estimating people and had underestimated Zaid Al -Khail, and then named him ‘Zaid Al -Khair’ (i.e. Zaid, the bounteous).

Question 1288. What do the biographers and invasion-writers have written about?
Answer 1288. Biographers and invasion-writers have written down about some of Yemen delegations.

Question 1289. What did the Qur’ân say about some of the Arabs who had become Muslims?
Answer 1289. The Qur’ân said that some of the Arabs who had become Muslims were hard-hearted bedouins who had surrendered only because their master did so and their souls had not yet been sanctified by the teachings of Islam.


Page 295

Answer 1289. The Qur’ân is praising others for looking upon what they spend in Allâh’s cause as approaches to Allâh and a cause of receiving the Messenger’s invocations.

Answer 1289. Those of them who were present were at Makkah, Madinah, Thaqif, many other areas of Al-Yemen, and Al-Bahrain.

Answer 1289. What was different about those of them who were present was that Islam had been firmly rooted in their souls.

Answer 1289. Some of the them were great Companions and Masters of Muslims.

Answer 1289. Allâh will admit them to His Mercy.


Page 296

Question 1290. What did the Messenger of Allâh undertake in his lifetime?
Answer 1290. The Messenger of Allâh undertook to carry the burdens of the great expectations on his shoulders for the sake of the whole mankind and humanity, the Faith and Jihad in various fields.

Question 1291. How did the Messenger of Allâh free man’s conscience?
Answer 1291. The Messenger of Allâh freed man’s conscience by taking upon his shoulder to free man’s conscience which was chained with desires and lusts.

Question 1292. What is the battle that the Messenger of Allâh undertook?
Answer 1292. The Messenger of Allâh undertook the burdens of struggle and Al-Jihad in the conscience of mankind which was then drowning in the illusions of Al-Jahiliyah and its images that were loaded with the ground weights and gravitations.

Question 1293. Who was the leader of the battle against the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 1293. Satan was the leader of the battle against the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1294. How did the Messenger of Allâh call effectively?
Answer 1294. The Messenger of Allâh called effectively and actively surrounded by the believers who were seeking security through ceaseless toil and great patience.


Page 297

Question 1295. What was the result of the Islamic Call prevailing in Arabia?
Answer 1295. The result of the Islamic Call prevailing in Arabia was the removal of traces of Al-Jahiliyah and the general atmosphere echoing "there is no god but Allâh". It also led to scattered people and tribes becoming united and man worshipping Allâh rather than other people. In addition, it brought about social justice and removed arrogance and the boastful spirit.

Question 1296. How was the atmosphere of Arabia changed by the Islamic Call?
Answer 1296. The atmosphere of Arabia was changed by the Islamic Call through the calls to prayers being heard five times a day, penetrating space and breaking the silence of the dead desert and bringing back life through the new belief. Reciters and memorizers of the Qur’ân set out northwards and southwards to spread the teachings of Islam.

Question 1297. How did the Islamic Call lead to the establishment of a new world?
Answer 1297. The Islamic Call led to the establishment of a new world by freeing humanity from superstitions, illusions, white slavery, corruption, man's worship of man and social distinctions. It also set up a world based on positivity, righteous construction, freedom and renewal.

Question 1298. What were some of the effects of the Islamic Call on human life?
Answer 1298. Some of the effects of the Islamic Call on human life were freeing the human society of filth, dissolution, injustice and tyranny, and setting up a world built on solid virtuous and clean foundations. It also brought about truth, faith, dignity, active steady deeds, the development and improvement of means of living and reclaim of rights.

Question 1299. What were some of the changes that occurred to Arabia thanks to the Islamic Call?
Answer 1299. Thanks to the Islamic Call, Arabia saw an unprecedented blessed resurrection, since construction and establishment found its way to it. In addition, its history became more religious, pious and brilliant and it witnessed the freeing of the human society of filth, dissolution, injustice and tyranny.


Page 298

Question 1300. Who was the Messenger of Allâh?
Answer 1300. The Messenger of Allâh was the Prophet Muhammad.

Question 1301. What did the Messenger of Allâh do when entering Makkah?
Answer 1301. When entering Makkah, the Messenger of Allâh took a bath on Sunday morning, the fourth of Dhul -Hijjah the tenth year of Al -Hijra and then circumambulated Al -Ka‘bah and walked to and fro ( Sa‘i) between As -Safa and Al-Marwah.

Question 1302. What did Mu‘adh do when he heard about the Messenger of Allâh's departure?
Answer 1302. When Mu‘adh heard about the Messenger of Allâh's departure, he cried for fear that he would part with the Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1303. What action did the Messenger of Allâh taket before departing?
Answer 1303. Before departing, the Messenger of Allâh combed his hair, applied some perfume, wore his garment, and saddled his camel.

Question 1304. What did the Messenger of Allâh proclaim before performing the noon prayer?
Answer 1304. Before performing the noon prayer, the Messenger of Allâh proclaimed an intention to proceed with a pilgrimage journey and then proclaimed the pilgrimage procedure associated with ‘ Umrah at his prayer -place.


Page 299

Question 1305. What was ordered to those who had no Hadi with them?
Answer 1305. They were ordered to observe Ihram (i.e. the state of ritual consecration) into ‘Umrah (i.e. lesser pilgrimage), and circumambulate Al-Ka‘bah and stride ritually to and fro between As-Safa and Al-Marwah.

Question 1306. How many prayers did the Messenger of Allâh perform on the eighth day of Dhul-Hijjah?
Answer 1306. He performed the noon, the afternoon, the sunset, the evening and the dawn prayers, i.e. five prayers.

Question 1307. What did the Messenger of Allâh abolish in his speech?
Answer 1307. The Messenger of Allâh abolished the blood-revenge of the Days of Ignorance (pre-Islamic time) and the amount of interest ‘Abbas bin ‘Abdul Muttalib had to receive.

Question 1308. What did the Messenger of Allâh recommend people to do?
Answer 1308. The Messenger of Allâh recommended people to worship their Lord, pray the five prayers, fast Ramadan, offer the Zakat (poor-due) of their provision willingly, do the pilgrimage to the Sacred House of their Lord, and obey those who are in charge of them.

Question 1309. What did he ask people to say about him?
Answer 1309. He asked people to say that he recommended them to worship their Lord, pray thefive prayers, fast Ramadan, offer the Zakat (poor-due) of their provision willingly, do the pilgrimage to the Sacred House of their Lord, and obey those who are in charge of them.


Page 300

Question 1310. What did Rabi'a bin Omaiyah bin Khalaf repeat after the Prophet?
Answer 1310. Rabi'a bin Omaiyah bin Khalaf repeated the Prophet's statements loudly at 'Arafat.

Question 1311. What was the Quranic verse revealed to the Prophet after he delivered the speech?
Answer 1311. The Quran verse revealed to the Prophet after he delivered the speech was "This day I have perfected your religion for you, completed My Favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion."

Question 1312. How many camels were sacrificed by the Prophet?
Answer 1312. The Prophet sacrificed a total of sixty-three camels with his hands and asked 'Ali to slaughter the other one hundred and thirty-seven altogether.

Question 1313. What did the Messenger of Allah do after the noon prayer at Makkah?
Answer 1313. After the noon prayer at Makkah, the Messenger of Allah came upon the children of 'Abdul Muttalib who were supplying drinking water to people at Zamzam Well and he said "Draw up water, children of 'Abdul Muttalib, I would draw up with you if I were not afraid that people would appropriate this honour after me."

Question 1314. When did the Prophet observe the sunset and the evening prayers?
Answer 1314. The Prophet observed the sunset and the evening prayers with one 'First call' and two 'second calls' at Muzdalifa.


Page 301

Question 1315. What month is it in the text?
Answer 1315. The month is Dhul-Hijjah.

Question 1316. What town is mentioned in the text?
Answer 1316. The town is Al-Baldah.

Question 1317. What day is it in the text?
Answer 1317. The day is 'An-Nahr' (Slaughtering Day).

Question 1318. What were some of the things the Prophet said in the speech?
Answer 1318. The Prophet said that honour and blood are both inviolable (Haram) and it is wrong to go astray and kill one another. He also said that Satan has despaired from being worshipped in that country, but will be obeyed at committing trivial things.

Question 1319. What else did the Prophet say in the speech?
Answer 1319. The Prophet said that whoever plunges into misfortune will certainly aggrieve themselves and that no one should inflict an evil upon their parents.


Page 302

Question 1320. What days did the Prophet spend in Mina performing rituals?
Answer 1320. The Prophet spent At-Tashreeq Days (11th, 12th and 13th of Dhul-Hijjah) in Mina performing the ritual teachings of Islam.

Question 1321. What did the Prophet do on the second day of An-Nafr?
Answer 1321. On the second day of An-Nafr (i.e. Departure) — on the thirteenth of Dhul -Hijjah, the Prophet proceeded with An-Nafr to Mina and stayed at a high place of a mountain side at Bani Kinanah from Al -Abtah.

Question 1322. Where did the Prophet go after accomplishing his religious rituals?
Answer 1322. After accomplishing his religious rituals, the Prophet quickened his move to the purified Madinah.

Question 1323. What did the Prophet say in his speech on the Ru’us Day?
Answer 1323. In a version to Abu Da’ûd with good reference to Sira,’ the daughter of Nabhan, the Prophet said: "Is it not this the middle day of At-Tashreeq Days."

Question 1324. What did the Prophet do on the thirteenth of Dhul-Hijjah?
Answer 1324. On the thirteenth of Dhul-Hijjah, the Prophet stayed at a high place of a mountain side at Bani Kinanah from Al -Abtah and performed the noon, the afternoon, the sunset and the evening prayers.


Page 303

Question 1325. What did the Byzantine State deny Muslims?
Answer 1325. The Byzantine State denied Muslims their right to live.

Question 1326. What event caused the Messenger of Allah to mobilize a great army?
Answer 1326. The killing of Farwah bin 'Amr Al-Judhami, who was the Byzantine agent on Mu'an, caused the Messenger of Allah to mobilize a great army.

Question 1327. Why did people contest Osamah's leadership?
Answer 1327. People contested Osamah's leadership because he was still too young.

Question 1328. When did the expedition begin?
Answer 1328. The expedition began in Safar in the eleventh year of Al-Hijra.

Question 1329. What event caused the expedition to tarry again?
Answer 1329. The anxiety-provoking news about the Messenger of Allah's sickness caused the expedition to tarry again.


Page 304

Question 1330. How many days did the Prophet seclude himself for in Ramadan in the tenth year of Al-Hijra?
Answer 1330. Twenty days.


Page 305

Question 1331. What did the Prophet do five days before his death?
Answer 1331. His temperature rose and he fainted, suffering from pain. He asked to be poured seven Qirab of various water wells and then felt well enough to enter the Mosque.

Question 1332. What did the Prophet do when he entered the Mosque?
Answer 1332. He sat on the pulpit and made a speech to the people who were gathering around him, cursing the Jews and Christians for worshipping their prophets' tombs, and warned not to make his tomb a worshipped idol.

Question 1333. What did the Prophet do after the speech?
Answer 1333. He offered himself and invited people to repay any injuries he might have inflicted on them, and then descended and performed the noon prayer.

Question 1334. What did the Prophet say when a man claimed he owed him three dirhams?
Answer 1334. He said, "Fadl, pay him the money."

Question 1335. What did the Prophet admonish the people to do?
Answer 1335. He admonished them to be good to the Ansar, and to fully acknowledge and appreciate the favor they have shown and overlook their faults.


Page 306

Question 1336. What did the Prophet of Allah say about Abu Bakr four days before his death?
Answer 1336. The Prophet of Allah said that if he were to make a friendship with any other one than Allah, he would make Abu Bakr a bosom friend of his and feel affection and brotherhood of Islam toward him. He also said that no gate shall be kept open in the Mosque except that of Abu Bakr’s.

Question 1337. What did Umar bin Al-Khattab say when the Prophet of Allah asked people to write something?
Answer 1337. Umar bin Al-Khattab said that the Prophet of Allah was suffering from acute pain and they had the Quran with them, so the book of Allah was sufficient unto them.

Question 1338. What did the Prophet of Allah recommend four days before his death?
Answer 1338. The Prophet of Allah recommended that Jews, Christians, and polytheists should be expelled out of Arabia, that delegations should be honoured and entertained, and that adherence to the Holy Book and the Sunnah should be achieved and mobilized.


Page 307

Question 1339. Who led the prayer during the last days of the Prophet's life?
Answer 1339. Abu Bakr led the prayer during the last days of the Prophet's life.

Question 1340. On what day did the Prophet feel well enough to lead the prayer?
Answer 1340. The Prophet felt well enough to lead the prayer on Saturday or Sunday.

Question 1341. On the day prior to his death, what did the Prophet give away?
Answer 1341. On the day prior to his death, the Prophet set his slaves free, gave his weapons as a present to the Muslims, and paid charity with the seven Dinars he owned.

Question 1342. When ‘Aishah had to borrow some oil from her neighbour, what was it for?
Answer 1342. ‘Aishah had to borrow some oil from her neighbour to light her oil lantern.

Question 1343. What did the Prophet say when the women asked to exempt Abu Bakr from leading the prayer?
Answer 1343. The Prophet said when the women asked to exempt Abu Bakr from leading the prayer, "You (women) are like the women who tried to entice Joseph (Yusuf) into immorality. Convey my request to Abu Bakr to lead the prayer."


Page 308

Question 1344. Who did Abu Bakr see that caused him to give way to lead the prayer?
Answer 1344. Abu Bakr saw the Prophet and withdrew to give way for him to lead the prayer.

Question 1345. What did the Prophet tell Fatimah that made her cry and laugh?
Answer 1345. The Prophet told Fatimah that he would not recover from his illness, and then told her that she would be the first of his family to join him, making her cry and then laugh.

Question 1346. What did the Prophet tell Fatimah that made her the "lady of all women of the world"?
Answer 1346. The Prophet gave Fatimah glad tidings that she would become the lady of all women of the world.

Question 1347. How did the Prophet brush his teeth when he was in pain?
Answer 1347. The Prophet brushed his teeth with a Siwak softened by 'Aishah's saliva, or "as nice as he could" according to another version.

Question 1348. What did the Prophet say his last words to be?
Answer 1348. The Prophet's last words were "There is no god but Allâh. Death is full of agonies."


Page 309

Question 1349. What did the Prophet do after brushing his teeth with the Siwak?
Answer 1349. After brushing his teeth with the Siwak, the Prophet raised his hand or finger, looked upwards to the ceiling and moved his lips.

Question 1350. When did the event of the Prophet's death take place?
Answer 1350. The event of the Prophet's death took place at high morning time on Monday, the twelfth of Rabi‘ Al-Awwal, in the eleventh year of Al -Hijrah.

Question 1351. What did Fatimah say upon the Prophet's death?
Answer 1351. Upon the Prophet's death, Fatimah said: "O Father, whom his Lord responded to his supplication! O Father, whose abode is Paradise. O Father, whom I announce his death to Gabriel."

Question 1352. What did 'Umar claim upon hearing news of the Prophet's death?
Answer 1352. Upon hearing news of the Prophet's death, 'Umar claimed that the Prophet did not die, but went to his Lord in the same way as Moses bin ‘Imran did.

Question 1353. What did Abu Bakr say to people when he entered 'Aishah's abode?
Answer 1353. When Abu Bakr entered 'Aishah's abode, he said: "And now, he who worships Muhammad . Muhammad is dead now. But he who worships Allâh, He is Ever Living and He never dies. Allâh says: 'Muhammad  is no more than an apostle, and indeed many apostles have passed away before him. If he dies or is slain, will you then turn back on your heels?'"


Page 310

Question 1354. Who said "By Allâh, it sounded as if people had never heard such a Qur’ânic verse till Abu Bakr recited it as a reminder"?
Answer 1354. Ibn 'Abbas said this.

Question 1355. Who washed the Prophet 's body?
Answer 1355. Al-'Abbas, 'Ali, Al-Fadl and Qathm - the two sons of Al-'Abbas, Shaqran - the Messenger's freed slave, Osamah bin Zaid, and Aws bin Khauli washed the Prophet's body.

Question 1356. What sort of disagreement arose with regard to the burial place?
Answer 1356. Abu Bakr said that he had heard the Messenger of Allâh say "A dead Prophet is buried where he dies." Consequently, Abu Talhah lifted the bed on which he died, dug underneath and cut the ground to make the tomb.

Question 1357. What sort of clothing was the Prophet shrouded in?
Answer 1357. The Prophet was shrouded in three white Sahooli cotton cloths which had neither a headcloth nor a casing.

Question 1358. When did the burial process take place?
Answer 1358. The burial process took Tuesday long and Wednesday night (i.e. the night which precedes Wednesday morning).


Page 311

Question 1359. Who were the Prophet's sons and daughters with Khadijah?
Answer 1359. Their sons all died, while their daughters were Zainab, Ruqaiya, Umm Kulthum and Fatimah.

Question 1360. How many wives did the Prophet marry?
Answer 1360. The Prophet married thirteen wives in total.

Question 1361. Who was the only virgin wife that the Prophet married?
Answer 1361. The Prophet married 'Aishah bint Abu Bakr as his only virgin wife.

Question 1362. What was the nickname of Zainab bint Khuzaima?
Answer 1362. Zainab bint Khuzaima was nicknamed Umm Al-Masakeen due to her kindness and care towards the poor.

Question 1363. What is the name of the wife that the Prophet married in the fourth year of Al-Hijra?
Answer 1363. The Prophet married Hafsah bint 'Umar bin Al-Khattab in the fourth year of Al-Hijra.


Page 312

Question 1364. Who was Juwairiyah bint Al-Harith married to?
Answer 1364. She was married to The Messenger of Allâh.

Question 1365. When did The Messenger of Allâh marry Maimunah bint Al-Harith?
Answer 1365. The Messenger of Allâh married Maimunah bint Al-Harith in Dhul -Qa‘dah in the seventh year of Al -Hijra.

Question 1366. How many wives did The Messenger of Allâh have and how many did he outlive?
Answer 1366. The Messenger of Allâh had eleven wives and outlived two of them.

Question 1367. Who was a present gift to The Messenger of Allâh from Al-Muqauqis?
Answer 1367. Mariyah, the Coptic (an Egyptian Christian), was a present gift to The Messenger of Allâh from Al-Muqauqis.

Question 1368. What was the purpose of The Messenger of Allâh's marriage to the great number of women?
Answer 1368. The purpose of The Messenger of Allâh's marriage to the great number of women was to plead for their emancipation and to strengthen the relations among the believers and have them united under one banner.


Page 313

Question 1369. What did the Prophet desire to be satisfied through having multiple wives?
Answer 1369. The Prophet desired to be satisfied through having multiple wives in order to confirm the relationship among the four men, honour the in-law relationships, demolish or break down the Arab tribes enmity to Islam, extinguish their intense hatred, stop all sorts of provocation, aggression or hostility against Islam, educate and purify the souls of people, and furnish them with the instruments of propagating the true faith.

Question 1370. What were the aims and purposes of the Prophet's multiple marriages?
Answer 1370. The aims and purposes of the Prophet's multiple marriages were to confirm the relationship among the four men, honour the in-law relationships, demolish or break down the Arab tribes enmity to Islam, extinguish their intense hatred, stop all sorts of provocation, aggression or hostility against Islam, educate and purify the souls of people, and furnish them with the instruments of propagating the true faith.

Question 1371. How did Khalid bin Al-Waleed's attitude towards Uhud change after the Prophet's marriage to Umm Salamah?
Answer 1371. Khalid bin Al-Waleed's attitude towards Uhud changed from deliberately undecisive to willingly obedient after the Prophet's marriage to Umm Salamah.

Question 1372. How did the Prophet's marriage to Juwairiyah and Safiyah affect their respective tribes?
Answer 1372. The Prophet's marriage to Juwairiyah and Safiyah made their respective tribes stop all sorts of provocation, aggression or hostility against Islam.

Question 1373. What role did the Mothers of Believers play in conveying Prophetic traditions to the Muslims?
Answer 1373. The Mothers of Believers played an important role in conveying Prophetic traditions to the Muslims by being educated and taught the teachings and rules of Islam, and by relating a large number of the Prophet's deeds and statements.


Page 314

Question 1374. What tradition was the marriage of Muhammad and Zainab aimed at eradicating?
Answer 1374. The marriage of Muhammad and Zainab was aimed at eradicating the deeply rooted pre-Islamic tradition of the adoption of children.


Page 315

Question 1375. Who is Muhamma?
Answer 1375. Muhamma is the Messenger of Allah and the last of the Prophets.

Question 1376. What did the Muslims do during Al-Hudaibiyah 'Umrah?
Answer 1376. The Muslims picked up any expectoration that fell from the Prophet, raced to the water of his ablution, competed to pledge allegiance to death, and pledged not to flee from the battlefield.

Question 1377. What was the reaction of the people to Muhamma's marriage to Zainab?
Answer 1377. The people reacted negatively to Muhamma's marriage to Zainab and raised suspicions. Hypocrites made false propaganda against the marriage which had negative effects on the Muslims with weaker faith.

Question 1378. What was the purpose of Al-Ahzab Surah?
Answer 1378. Al-Ahzab Surah was revealed to shed light on two issues; Islam does not recognize adoption of children and the Prophet is given more freedom as regards the number of wives he can hold than other Muslims.

Question 1379. How did the Women of Prophet's household sustain themselves?
Answer 1379. The Women of the Prophet's household sustained themselves by eating dates and water.


Page 316

Question 1380. What did Allah give the wives of Muhammad to choose between?
Answer 1380. Allah gave the wives of Muhammad to choose between "the life of this world and its glitter" and "Allâh, His Messenger, and the Home of the Hereafter".

Question 1381. What kind of reward did Allah promise for those who chose the latter option?
Answer 1381. Allah promised an "enormous reward" for those who chose the latter option.

Question 1382. What was the incident mentioned in the At-Tahreem Chapter?
Answer 1382. The incident mentioned in the At-Tahreem Chapter was when Allah reproached the wives of Muhammad for a certain action and they ceased to do it.

Question 1383. What kind of difficulties are present in Europe regarding the principle of polygamy?
Answer 1383. In Europe, there are indecent practices, wickedness, and trials that emanate directly from the disregard of the principle of polygamy.

Question 1384. What is the benefit of discussing polygamy?
Answer 1384. The benefit of discussing polygamy is that it can provide a good reason to justify its soundness. It can show the distorted picture of life in Europe with the ill-practices that feature it and the Divine signs for people with a lucid mind.


Page 317

Question 1385. Who described the Prophet Muhammad and how did they describe him?
Answer 1385. Umm Ma‘bad Al-Khuza‘iyah, Ali bin Abi Talib and others described the Prophet Muhammad as having innocently bright face, broad countenance, fine manners, black and attractive eyes, glossy and black hair, large, well formed head, commanding voice, pensive and contemplative expression, sweet and distinct speech, medium height, hair between curly and wavy, fairly round face, white mouth, black and large eyes with long eyelids, big joints and shoulder joints, hair on chest, Seal of Prophethood between his shoulders, most reliable speech, most tractable and yieldings companion and that one who sees him or has acquaintance of him will like him.


Page 318

Question 1386. What did Abu At-Tufail say about the Prophet's physical appearance?
Answer 1386. Abu At-Tufail said that the Prophet was white, good-looking, neither fat nor thin, neither tall nor short.

Question 1387. What color were the Prophet's eyes?
Answer 1387. The Prophet's eyes were reddish (wide).

Question 1388. What did Jabir bin Samurah say about the Prophet's face?
Answer 1388. Jabir bin Samurah said that the Prophet's face shone like a moon-piece when he was pleased and his face-features twinkled like the lightning of an approaching rain when he was angry.

Question 1389. What did Abu Juhaifa say about the Prophet's lower lip?
Answer 1389. Abu Juhaifa said that he saw some grey color under the Prophet's lower lip.

Question 1390. How did ‘Umar describe the Prophet?
Answer 1390. ‘Umar described the Prophet as being like the lighted moon at a full-moon night when reciting verses by Zuhair describing Haram bin Sinan.


Page 319

Question 1391. What was the Prophet's neck described as?
Answer 1391. His neck was described as being as pure and silvery as a neck of a doll.

Question 1392. What were the Prophet's eyebrows like?
Answer 1392. The Prophet's eyebrows were like the metal piece attached to a lance, but they were unhorned.

Question 1393. What was the size of the Seal of Prophethood?
Answer 1393. The Seal of Prophethood was similar in size to a pigeon's egg.

Question 1394. What was the Prophet's sweat like?
Answer 1394. The Prophet's sweat was described as being pearl-like.

Question 1395. What was the Prophet's speech like?
Answer 1395. The Prophet was noted for having superb eloquence and fluency in Arabic.


Page 320

Question 1396. Who is Aishah?
Answer 1396. Aishah was one of the wives of the Prophet Muhammad.

Question 1397. What did the Prophet Muhammad do when given two choices?
Answer 1397. The Prophet Muhammad would always choose the easiest and most convenient option, provided it was not sinful.

Question 1398. What did Gabriel do when he visited the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 1398. Gabriel would visit the Prophet Muhammad every night of Ramadan and review the Qur’ân with him.

Question 1399. When was the Prophet Muhammad most generous?
Answer 1399. The Prophet Muhammad was most generous during Ramadan, the times at which the angel Gabriel visited him.

Question 1400. What did Ali say about the Prophet Muhammad?
Answer 1400. Ali said that whenever the fight grew fierce, people would resort to the Prophet Muhammad for succour.


Page 321

Question 1401. What is the nickname of the Prophet before Prophethood?
Answer 1401. Al-Ameen (i.e. the truthful, the truthworthy).

Question 1402. What did Heraclius ask Abu Sufyan?
Answer 1402. He asked if Abu Sufyan had ever accused the Prophet of lying before his ministry of Prophethood.

Question 1403. What did the Prophet use to do for himself?
Answer 1403. The Prophet used to repair his shoes, sew or mend his dress, milk the she-sheep, and cater for himself.

Question 1404. What did the Prophet do for the poor and needy?
Answer 1404. The Prophet used to visit the poor, the needy and entertain them, and would accept invitations from slaves. He would also love the poor and the needy and entertain them or participate in their funerals.

Question 1405. How did the Prophet handle offences and errors?
Answer 1405. The Prophet pushed back an offence or an error by forgiveness and overlooking and never exchanged offences with others.


Page 322

Question 1406. How did the Prophet glorify the bounty of Allah?
Answer 1406. The Prophet glorified the bounty of Allah by not praising or criticizing if he had no liking for someone's food.

Question 1407. How did the Prophet show surprise?
Answer 1407. The Prophet would show surprise by pointing with his full hand-palm and turning it round.

Question 1408. How did the Prophet demonstrate brotherhood among his Companions?
Answer 1408. The Prophet demonstrated brotherhood among his Companions by confirming their relationship and making them intimate and not separating them or implanting enmity among them.

Question 1409. What was the target of the Prophet in all his affairs?
Answer 1409. The target of the Prophet in all his affairs was righteousness, so he was never short of it nor indifferent to it.

Question 1410. How did the Prophet treat people in social gatherings?
Answer 1410. The Prophet treated people in social gatherings equally, so that the one addressed would think that there was no one more honored than himself. He listened patiently and never denied a request to anyone.


Page 323

Question 1411. What three qualities did the Prophet Muhammad possess?
Answer 1411. The Prophet Muhammad was disposessed of the qualities of hypocrisy, excessiveness, and avoidance of matters that were none of his concern.

Question 1412. What did the Prophet Muhammad advise people to do?
Answer 1412. The Prophet Muhammad advised people to assist those who were seeking an object earnestly, and to never ask for a reward except from the reward-Giver, i.e. Allâh.

Question 1413. How did people respond to the Prophet Muhammad when he spoke?
Answer 1413. When the Prophet Muhammad spoke, his listeners would attentively listen casting down their heads, and they only spoke when he was silent.

Question 1414. How did the Prophet Muhammed react when people around him laughed?
Answer 1414. The Prophet Muhammad would often laugh with them, showing admiration for what they appreciated.

Question 1415. According to the text, why was the Prophet Muhammad so popular?
Answer 1415. The Prophet Muhammad was so popular because of his incomparable attributes of perfection and the call to Islam, which the hearts and souls of the people around him found irresistible.

